                                                                                                                                                                    IA




                                                                   113TH CONGRESS
                                                                      1ST SESSION                        H. J. RES. 14
                                                                   Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States waiving
                                                                       the application of the first article of amendment to the political speech
                                                                       of corporations and other business organizations with respect to the
                                                                       disbursement of funds in connection with public elections and granting
                                                                       Congress and the States the power to establish limits on contributions
                                                                       and expenditures in elections for public office.




                                                                                 IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                                                            JANUARY 4, 2013
                                                                     Ms. KAPTUR             introduced the following joint resolution; which was referred to
                                                                                                     the Committee on the Judiciary




                                                                               JOINT RESOLUTION
                                                                   Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                                                      States waiving the application of the first article of
                                                                      amendment to the political speech of corporations and
                                                                      other business organizations with respect to the disburse-
                                                                      ment of funds in connection with public elections and
                                                                      granting Congress and the States the power to establish
                                                                      limits on contributions and expenditures in elections for
                                                                      public office.
                                                                     1               Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
rfrederick on DSK6VPTVN1PROD with                                    2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled
                                                                     3 (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                                                     4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-


                                                                                                                              2
                                                                     1 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                                                     2 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
                                                                     3 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
                                                                     4 States within seven years after the date of its submission
                                                                     5 for ratification:
                                                                     6                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                                                     7               ‘‘SECTION 1. The first article of amendment does not
                                                                     8 apply to the political speech of any corporation, partner-
                                                                     9 ship, business trust, association, or other business organi-
                                                                   10 zation with respect to the making of contributions, ex-
                                                                   11 penditures, or other disbursements of funds in connection
                                                                   12 with public elections.
                                                                   13                ‘‘SECTION 2. Congress shall have power to set limits
                                                                   14 on the amount of contributions that may be accepted by,
                                                                   15 and the amount of expenditures that may be made by, in
                                                                   16 support of, or in opposition to, a candidate for nomination
                                                                   17 for election to, or for election to, Federal office.
                                                                   18                ‘‘SECTION 3. A State shall have power to set limits
                                                                   19 on the amount of contributions that may be accepted by,
                                                                   20 and the amount of expenditures that may be made by, in
                                                                   21 support of, or in opposition to, a candidate for nomination
                                                                   22 for election to, or for election to, State or local office.
                                                                   23                ‘‘SECTION 4. Congress shall have power to implement
rfrederick on DSK6VPTVN1PROD with                                  24 and enforce this article by appropriate legislation.’’.
                                                                                                                              Æ

                                                                                •HJ 14 IH

