                                                                                                                                                                 IA




                                                                113TH CONGRESS
                                                                   1ST SESSION                        H. J. RES. 21
                                                                Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to clarify
                                                                    the authority of Congress and the States to regulate corporations, limited
                                                                    liability companies or other corporate entities established by the laws
                                                                    of any State, the United States, or any foreign state.




                                                                              IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                                            JANUARY 22, 2013
                                                                Mr. MCGOVERN (for himself, Mr. JONES, Ms. PINGREE of Maine, Mr. CAPU-
                                                                    ANO, Mr. COHEN, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. FARR, Mr. DEFAZIO, and Ms. LEE
                                                                    of California) introduced the following joint resolution; which was re-
                                                                    ferred to the Committee on the Judiciary




                                                                            JOINT RESOLUTION
                                                                Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                                                   States to clarify the authority of Congress and the States
                                                                   to regulate corporations, limited liability companies or
                                                                   other corporate entities established by the laws of any
                                                                   State, the United States, or any foreign state.
                                                                  1               Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                                                  2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled
                                                                  3 (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                                                  4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-
tkelley on DSK3SPTVN1PROD with                                    5 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                                                  6 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when


                                                                                                                           2
                                                                  1 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
                                                                  2 States:
                                                                  3                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                                                  4               ‘‘SECTION 1. We the people who ordain and establish
                                                                  5 this Constitution intend the rights protected by this Con-
                                                                  6 stitution to be the rights of natural persons.
                                                                  7               ‘‘SECTION 2. The words people, person, or citizen as
                                                                  8 used in this Constitution do not include corporations, lim-
                                                                  9 ited liability companies or other corporate entities estab-
                                                                10 lished by the laws of any State, the United States, or any
                                                                11 foreign state, and such corporate entities are subject to
                                                                12 such regulation as the people, through their elected State
                                                                13 and Federal representatives, deem reasonable and are oth-
                                                                14 erwise consistent with the powers of Congress and the
                                                                15 States under this Constitution.
                                                                16                ‘‘SECTION 3. Nothing contained herein shall be con-
                                                                17 strued to limit the people’s rights of freedom of speech,
                                                                18 freedom of the press, free exercise of religion, freedom of
                                                                19 association and all such other rights of the people, which
                                                                20 rights are unalienable.’’.
                                                                                                                           Æ
tkelley on DSK3SPTVN1PROD with




                                                                             •HJ 21 IH

