                                                                                                                                                                  IA




                                                                113TH CONGRESS
                                                                   1ST SESSION                         H. J. RES. 22
                                                                    Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to limit
                                                                     the number of consecutive terms that a Member of Congress may serve.




                                                                              IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                                                        JANUARY 22, 2013
                                                                   Mr. HARRIS            introduced the following joint resolution; which was referred to
                                                                                                  the Committee on the Judiciary




                                                                            JOINT RESOLUTION
                                                                Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                                                   States to limit the number of consecutive terms that
                                                                   a Member of Congress may serve.
                                                                  1               Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                                                  2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled
                                                                  3 (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                                                  4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-
                                                                  5 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                                                  6 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
                                                                  7 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
tkelley on DSK3SPTVN1PROD with                                    8 States within seven years after the date of its submission
                                                                  9 for ratification:



                                                                                                                           2
                                                                  1                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                                                  2               ‘‘SECTION 1. No person who has been a Senator for
                                                                  3 two full consecutive terms shall again be a Senator until
                                                                  4 the date that is one year after the end of such second
                                                                  5 full consecutive term.
                                                                  6               ‘‘SECTION 2. No person who has been a Representa-
                                                                  7 tive for six full consecutive terms shall again be a Rep-
                                                                  8 resentative until the date that is one year after the end
                                                                  9 of the sixth full consecutive term.
                                                                10                ‘‘SECTION 3. For the purposes of this article, any
                                                                11 term that began before the date of the ratification of this
                                                                12 article shall not be included in determining the number
                                                                13 of full consecutive terms that a person has been a Senator
                                                                14 or Representative.’’.
                                                                                                                           Æ
tkelley on DSK3SPTVN1PROD with




                                                                             •HJ 22 IH

