                                                                                                                                   IA




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       H. J. RES. 26
                                     Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to limit
                                      the number of consecutive terms that a Member of Congress may serve.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                FEBRUARY 12, 2013
                                      Mr. BARR (for himself and Mr. MCKINLEY) introduced the following joint
                                          resolution; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary




                                              JOINT RESOLUTION
                                  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                     States to limit the number of consecutive terms that
                                     a Member of Congress may serve.
                                    1              Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                    2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled
                                    3 (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                    4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-
                                    5 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                    6 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
                                    7 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
                                    8 States within seven years after the date of its submission




                                    9 for ratification:
                                                                                             2
                                    1                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                    2              ‘‘SECTION 1. No person who has been a Senator for
                                    3 two consecutive terms shall again be eligible for election
                                    4 or appointment to the Senate until the date that is one
                                    5 year after the end of such second consecutive term.
                                    6              ‘‘SECTION 2. No person who has been a Representa-
                                    7 tive for six consecutive terms shall again be eligible for
                                    8 election to the House of Representatives until the date
                                    9 that is one year after the end of the sixth consecutive
                                  10 term.
                                  11               ‘‘SECTION 3. For purposes of this article, any term
                                  12 a person serves as a Senator or Representative to fill a
                                  13 vacancy shall not be included in determining the number
                                  14 of consecutive terms that the person has been a Senator
                                  15 or Representative unless the period of time for which the
                                  16 person fills the vacancy is greater than three years in the
                                  17 case of a Senator or greater than one year in the case
                                  18 of a Representative.
                                  19               ‘‘SECTION 4. For the purposes of this article, any
                                  20 term that began before the date of the ratification of this
                                  21 article shall not be included in determining the number
                                  22 of consecutive terms that a person has been a Senator or
                                  23 Representative.’’.
                                              •HJ 26 IH                                    Æ
