                                                                                                                                    IA




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                        H. J. RES. 37
                                     Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States limiting
                                        the number of times Senators and Representatives may be elected.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                           MARCH 18, 2013
                                     Mr. RIBBLE            introduced the following joint resolution; which was referred to
                                                                    the Committee on the Judiciary




                                              JOINT RESOLUTION
                                  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                     States limiting the number of times Senators and Rep-
                                     resentatives may be elected.
                                    1              Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                    2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled
                                    3 (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                    4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-
                                    5 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                    6 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
                                    7 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
                                    8 States within seven years after the date of its submission




                                    9 for ratification:
                                                                                             2
                                    1                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                    2              ‘‘SECTION 1. No person shall be elected as a Rep-
                                    3 resentative more than three times. An election to any part
                                    4 of a term for which some other person was elected shall
                                    5 not count in determining the number of times a person
                                    6 is elected unless the person serves more than one year as
                                    7 a Representative pursuant to that election.
                                    8              ‘‘SECTION 2. No person shall be elected or appointed
                                    9 as a Senator more than twice. An election or appointment
                                  10 to any part of a term for which some other person was
                                  11 elected shall not count in determining the number of times
                                  12 a person is elected or appointed unless the person serves
                                  13 more than three years as a Senator pursuant to that elec-
                                  14 tion or appointment.
                                  15               ‘‘SECTION 3. Only elections or appointments which
                                  16 occur after the date of ratification of this article shall
                                  17 count in determining the number of times a person is
                                  18 elected or appointed.
                                  19               ‘‘SECTION 4. Any reelection or reappointment of a
                                  20 Senator to the office of Senator shall not count in deter-
                                  21 mining the number of times a person is elected or ap-
                                  22 pointed if the person was a Senator on the date of ratifica-
                                  23 tion of this article and has been elected as a Senator every
                                  24 term since the date of ratification of this article. Any re-




                                  25 election of a Representative to the office of Representative
                                              •HJ 37 IH

                                                                                             3
                                    1 shall not count in determining the number of times a per-
                                    2 son is elected or appointed if the person was a Representa-
                                    3 tive on the date of ratification of this article and has been
                                    4 elected as a Representative every term since the date of
                                    5 ratification of this article.’’.
                                              •HJ 37 IH                                    Æ
