                                                                                                                                                               IA




                                                                113TH CONGRESS
                                                                   1ST SESSION                        H. J. RES. 8
                                                                Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to limit
                                                                    the number of terms that a Member of Congress may serve to 4 in
                                                                    the House of Representatives and 2 in the Senate.




                                                                              IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                                                        JANUARY 3, 2013
                                                                 Mr. FITZPATRICK            introduced the following joint resolution; which was referred
                                                                                                to the Committee on the Judiciary




                                                                            JOINT RESOLUTION
                                                                Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                                                   States to limit the number of terms that a Member
                                                                   of Congress may serve to 4 in the House of Representa-
                                                                   tives and 2 in the Senate.
                                                                  1               Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                                                  2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled
                                                                  3 (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                                                  4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-
                                                                  5 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                                                  6 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with                                    7 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
                                                                                                                           2
                                                                  1 States within seven years after the date of its submission
                                                                  2 for ratification:
                                                                  3                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                                                  4               ‘‘SECTION 1. No person who has served four terms
                                                                  5 as a Representative shall be eligible for election to the
                                                                  6 House of Representatives. For purposes of this section,
                                                                  7 any period during which a person serves as a Representa-
                                                                  8 tive pursuant to an election to fill a vacancy shall not be
                                                                  9 included as a term served by the person.
                                                                10                ‘‘SECTION 2. No person who has served two terms
                                                                11 as a Senator shall be eligible for election or appointment
                                                                12 to the Senate. For purposes of this section, any period
                                                                13 during which a person serves as a Senator pursuant to
                                                                14 an election or appointment to fill a vacancy shall be not
                                                                15 be included as a term served by the person.
                                                                16                ‘‘SECTION 3. No term beginning before the date of
                                                                17 the ratification of this article shall be taken into account
                                                                18 in determining eligibility for election or appointment under
                                                                19 this article.’’.
                                                                                                                           Æ
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with




                                                                             •HJ 8 IH

