                                                                                                                                                               IA




                                                                113TH CONGRESS
                                                                   1ST SESSION                        H. J. RES. 9
                                                                Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States prohibiting
                                                                    the United States government from increasing its debt except for a
                                                                    specific purpose by law adopted by three-fourths of the membership
                                                                    of each House of Congress.




                                                                              IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                                                        JANUARY 3, 2013
                                                                Mr. MCCLINTOCK              introduced the following joint resolution; which was referred
                                                                                                to the Committee on the Judiciary




                                                                            JOINT RESOLUTION
                                                                Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                                                   States prohibiting the United States government from
                                                                   increasing its debt except for a specific purpose by law
                                                                   adopted by three-fourths of the membership of each
                                                                   House of Congress.
                                                                  1               Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                                                  2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled
                                                                  3 (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                                                  4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-
                                                                  5 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with                                    6 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
                                                                  7 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several


                                                                                                                           2
                                                                  1 States within seven years after the date of its submission
                                                                  2 for ratification:
                                                                  3                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                                                  4               ‘‘SECTION 1. The United States government may not
                                                                  5 increase its debt except for a specific purpose by law
                                                                  6 adopted by three-fourths of the membership of each House
                                                                  7 of Congress.
                                                                  8               ‘‘SECTION 2. This article shall take effect beginning
                                                                  9 ten years after its ratification.’’.
                                                                                                                           Æ
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with




                                                                             •HJ 9 IH

