                                                                                                                                                                   II




                                                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                                                     1ST SESSION                            S. 101
                                                                  To prohibit the provision of Federal funds to State and local governments
                                                                      for payment of obligations, to prohibit the Board of Governors of the
                                                                      Federal Reserve System from financially assisting State and local govern-
                                                                      ments, and for other purposes.




                                                                              IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                                                 JANUARY 23 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 2013
                                                                    Mr. VITTER introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred
                                                                           to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs




                                                                                                            A BILL
                                                                  To prohibit the provision of Federal funds to State and
                                                                     local governments for payment of obligations, to prohibit
                                                                     the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
                                                                     from financially assisting State and local governments,
                                                                     and for other purposes.
                                                                    1               Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
                                                                    2 tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
                                                                    3     SECTION 1. PROHIBITION ON THE USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS
                                                                    4                             TO PAY STATE AND LOCAL OBLIGATIONS.
                                                                    5               (a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provi-
srobinson on DSK4SPTVN1PROD with                                    6 sion of law, no Federal funds may be used to purchase
                                                                    7 or guarantee obligations of, issue lines of credit to, or pro-


                                                                                                                             2
                                                                    1 vide direct or indirect grants-and-aid to, any State govern-
                                                                    2 ment, municipal government, local government, or county
                                                                    3 government which, on or after January 26, 2011, has de-
                                                                    4 faulted on its obligations, is at risk of defaulting, or is
                                                                    5 likely to default, absent such assistance from the United
                                                                    6 States Government.
                                                                    7               (b) LIMIT ON USE OF BORROWED FUNDS.—The Sec-
                                                                    8 retary of the Treasury shall not, directly or indirectly, use
                                                                    9 general fund revenues or funds borrowed pursuant to title
                                                                  10 31, United States Code, to purchase or guarantee any
                                                                  11 asset or obligation of any State government, municipal
                                                                  12 government, local government, or county government, or
                                                                  13 otherwise to assist such government entity, if, on or after
                                                                  14 January 26, 2011, that State government, municipal gov-
                                                                  15 ernment, or county government has defaulted on its obli-
                                                                  16 gations, is at risk of defaulting, or is likely to default, ab-
                                                                  17 sent such assistance from the United States Government.
                                                                  18                (c) PROHIBITION                   ON         FEDERAL RESERVE ASSIST-
                                                                  19      ANCE.—Notwithstanding                              any other provision of law, the
                                                                  20 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall
                                                                  21 not provide or extend to, or authorize with respect to, any
                                                                  22 State government, municipal government, local govern-
                                                                  23 ment, county government, or other entity that has taxing
srobinson on DSK4SPTVN1PROD with                                  24 authority or bonding authority, any funds, loan guaran-
                                                                  25 tees, credits, or any other financial instrument or other


                                                                               •S 101 IS

                                                                                                                             3
                                                                    1 authority, including the purchasing of the bonds of such
                                                                    2 State, municipality, locality, county, or other bonding au-
                                                                    3 thority, or to otherwise assist such government entity
                                                                    4 under any authority of the Board of Governors.
                                                                    5               (d) LIMITATION.—Subsections (a) through (c) shall
                                                                    6 not apply to Federal assistance provided in response to
                                                                    7 a natural disaster.
                                                                                                                             Æ
srobinson on DSK4SPTVN1PROD with




                                                                               •S 101 IS

