S. Con. Res. 3                                                       Agreed to January 4, 2013



                    One Hundred Thirteenth Congress
                                of the
                       United States of America
                                  AT T H E F I R S T S E S S I O N

                        Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday,
                         the third day of January, two thousand and thirteen




                                   Concurrent Resolution
                      Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concur-
                 ring), That when the Senate recesses or adjourns on any day from
                 Friday, January 4, 2013 through Monday, January 21, 2013, on
                 a motion offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its
                 Majority Leader or his designee, it stand recessed or adjourned
                 until 12:00 noon on Monday, January 21, 2013, or such other
                 time on that day as may be specified by its Majority Leader or
                 his designee in the motion to recess or adjourn, or until the time
                 of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent resolu-
                 tion, whichever occurs first; and that when the House adjourns
                 on any legislative day from Friday, January 4, 2013, through Satur-
                 day, January 5, 2013, on a motion offered pursuant to this concur-
                 rent resolution by its Majority Leader or his designee, it stand
                 adjourned until 2:00 p.m. on Monday, January 14, 2013, or until
                 the time of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent
                 resolution, whichever occurs first.
                      SEC. 2. The Majority Leader of the Senate and the Speaker
                 of the House, or their respective designees, acting jointly after
                 consultation with the Minority Leader of the Senate and the
                 Minority Leader of the House, shall notify the Members of the
                 Senate and House, respectively, to reassemble at such place and
                         S. Con. Res. 3—2

time as they may designate if, in their opinion, the public interest
shall warrant it.

  Attest:




                                            Secretary of the Senate.

  Attest:




                            Clerk of the House of Representatives.
