                                                                                                                                 III




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       S. CON. RES. 7
                                  Expressing the sense of Congress regarding the conditions for the United
                                      States becoming a signatory to the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty,
                                      or to any similar agreement on the arms trade.




                                              IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                               MARCH 13, 2013
                                  Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. ALEXANDER, Ms. AYOTTE, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr.
                                      BOOZMAN, Mr. BURR, Mr. CHAMBLISS, Mr. COBURN, Mr. CORNYN, Mr.
                                      CRAPO, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. ENZI, Mr. FLAKE, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. HATCH,
                                      Mr. HELLER, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. JOHANNS,
                                      Mr. PAUL, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. RISCH, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
                                      THUNE, Mr. TOOMEY, Mr. VITTER, and Mr. WICKER) submitted the fol-
                                      lowing concurrent resolution; which was referred to the Committee on
                                      Foreign Relations




                                          CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
                                  Expressing the sense of Congress regarding the conditions
                                     for the United States becoming a signatory to the United
                                     Nations Arms Trade Treaty, or to any similar agreement
                                     on the arms trade.

                                  Whereas in October 2009, the United States voted in the
                                     United Nations General Assembly to participate in the
                                     negotiation of the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty;
                                  Whereas in July 2012, the United Nations Conference on the





                                     Arms Trade Treaty convened to negotiate the text of the
                                     Arms Trade Treaty;



                                                                                             2
                                  Whereas in December 2012, the United Nations General As-
                                     sembly voted to hold a final negotiating conference on the
                                     Arms Trade Treaty in March 2013, on the basis of the
                                     text of July 2012;
                                  Whereas the Arms Trade Treaty poses significant risks to the
                                     national security, foreign policy, and economic interests
                                     of the United States as well as to the constitutional
                                     rights of United States citizens and United States sov-
                                     ereignty;
                                  Whereas the Arms Trade Treaty fails to expressly recognize
                                     the fundamental, individual right to keep and to bear
                                     arms and the individual right of personal self-defense, as
                                     well as the legitimacy of hunting, sports shooting, and
                                     other lawful activities pertaining to the private ownership
                                     of firearms and related materials, and thus risks infring-
                                     ing on freedoms protected by the Second Amendment;
                                  Whereas the Arms Trade Treaty places free democracies and
                                     totalitarian regimes on a basis of equality, recognizing
                                     their equal right to transfer arms, and is thereby dan-
                                     gerous to the security of the United States;
                                  Whereas the Arms Trade Treaty’s criteria for assessing the
                                     potential consequences of arms transfers are vague, easily
                                     politicized, and readily manipulated;
                                  Whereas the Arms Trade Treaty’s model for using these cri-
                                     teria is incompatible with the decisionmaking model for
                                     arms transfers employed by the United States under
                                     Presidential Decision Directive 34, which dates from
                                     1995;
                                  Whereas the Arms Trade Treaty will create opportunities to
                                     engage in ‘‘lawfare’’ against the United States via the


                                              •SCON 7 IS

                                                                                             3
                                          misuse of the treaty’s criteria in foreign tribunals and
                                          international fora;
                                  Whereas the Arms Trade Treaty could hinder the United
                                     States from fulfilling its strategic, legal, and moral com-
                                     mitments to provide arms to allies such as the Republic
                                     of China (Taiwan) and the State of Israel;
                                  Whereas the creation of an international secretariat to ad-
                                     minister and assist in the implementation of the Arms
                                     Trade Treaty risks the delegation of authority to a bu-
                                     reaucracy that is not accountable to the people of the
                                     United States;
                                  Whereas the Arms Trade Treaty urges the provision of ca-
                                     pacity building assistance from signatory nations to im-
                                     plement the Arms Trade Treaty, which could create a
                                     source of permanent funding to a new international orga-
                                     nization that would be susceptible to waste, fraud, and
                                     abuse;
                                  Whereas the Arms Trade Treaty risks imposing costly regu-
                                     latory burdens on United States businesses, for example,
                                     by creating onerous reporting requirements that could
                                     damage the domestic defense manufacturing base and re-
                                     lated firms;
                                  Whereas an Arms Trade Treaty that has not been signed by
                                     the President and received the advice and consent of the
                                     Senate should not bind the United States in any respect
                                     as customary international law, jus cogens, or any other
                                     principle of international law that bypasses the treaty
                                     power in article II, section 2, clause 2 of the Constitu-
                                     tion;





                                  Whereas an Arms Trade Treaty that has merely been signed
                                     by the President but has not received the advice and con-

                                              •SCON 7 IS

                                                                                             4
                                          sent of the Senate should not bind the United States in
                                          any respect, including any obligation to refrain from de-
                                          feating the object and purpose of the Arms Trade Treaty,
                                          under any provision of the Vienna Convention on the
                                          Law of Treaties, to which the United States is not a
                                          party;
                                  Whereas an Arms Trade Treaty that has merely been signed
                                     by the President but has not received the advice and con-
                                     sent of the Senate should not bind the United States in
                                     any respect, as an international agreement other than a
                                     treaty, as a sole executive agreement, or in any other
                                     way; and
                                  Whereas an Arms Trade Treaty that has been signed by the
                                     President and has received the advice and consent of the
                                     Senate, is a non-self-executing treaty that has no domes-
                                     tic legal effect within the United States, unless and until
                                     it has been adopted by the enactment of implementing
                                     legislation by the Congress: Now, therefore, be it
                                    1              Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives
                                    2 concurring), That it is the sense of Congress that—
                                    3                        (1) the President should not sign the Arms
                                    4              Trade Treaty, and that, if he transmits the treaty
                                    5              with his signature to the Senate, the Senate should
                                    6              not ratify the Arms Trade Treaty; and
                                    7                        (2) until the Arms Trade Treaty has been
                                    8              signed by the President, received the advice and con-
                                    9              sent of the Senate, and has been the subject of im-




                                  10               plementing legislation by Congress, no Federal funds
                                  11               should be appropriated or authorized to implement

                                              •SCON 7 IS

                                                                                             5
                                    1              the Arms Trade Treaty, or any similar agreement,
                                    2              or to conduct activities relevant to the Arms Trade
                                    3              Treaty, or any similar agreement.
                                              •SCON 7 IS                                   Æ
