                                                                                                                                                                 IV




                                                                113TH CONGRESS
                                                                   1ST SESSION                        H. RES. 13
                                                                Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to require that general
                                                                   appropriations for military construction and veterans’ affairs be consid-
                                                                   ered as stand-alone measures.




                                                                              IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                                            JANUARY 3, 2013
                                                                Mr. GINGREY of Georgia (for himself, Mr. WESTMORELAND, Mr. POSEY, and
                                                                    Mr. CONAWAY) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to
                                                                    the Committee on Rules




                                                                                            RESOLUTION
                                                                Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to
                                                                   require that general appropriations for military construc-
                                                                   tion and veterans’ affairs be considered as stand-alone
                                                                   measures.
                                                                  1               Resolved, That rule XXI of the Rules of the House
                                                                  2 of Representatives is amended by adding at the end the
                                                                  3 following new clause:
                                                                  4 ‘‘Stand-alone requirement for military construction
                                                                  5                            and veterans’ affairs appropriations

                                                                  6               ‘‘12. It shall not be in order to consider any bill or
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with                                    7 joint resolution, or conference report thereon, containing
                                                                  8 appropriations within the jurisdiction of the Subcommittee


                                                                                                                           2
                                                                  1 on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related
                                                                  2 Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations if such
                                                                  3 measure also contains appropriations within the jurisdic-
                                                                  4 tion of any other subcommittee of that committee. The
                                                                  5 preceding sentence shall not apply to any measure making
                                                                  6 supplemental appropriations or to any measure continuing
                                                                  7 appropriations for a period of not to exceed 60 days.’’.
                                                                                                                           Æ
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with




                                                                             •HRES 13 IH

