                                                                                                                                                                    IV




                                                                   113TH CONGRESS
                                                                      1ST SESSION                        H. RES. 24
                                                                   Expressing the deep disappointment of the House of Representatives in the
                                                                       enactment by the Russia Government of a law ending inter-country
                                                                       adoptions of Russian children by United States citizens and urging
                                                                       the Russia Government to reconsider the law and prioritize the processing
                                                                       of inter-country adoptions involving parentless Russian children who were
                                                                       already matched with United States families before the enactment of
                                                                       the law.




                                                                                 IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                                              JANUARY 14, 2013
                                                                   Mrs. BACHMANN (for herself, Ms. BASS, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. JACKSON
                                                                       LEE, Mr. BURGESS, Mr. TIBERI, Mr. BRADY of Texas, Mr. NUNNELEE,
                                                                       Mr. FRANKS of Arizona, Mr. ADERHOLT, Mr. MARINO, Mr. HUIZENGA
                                                                       of Michigan, and Mr. PALAZZO) submitted the following resolution; which
                                                                       was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs




                                                                                               RESOLUTION
                                                                   Expressing the deep disappointment of the House of Rep-
                                                                      resentatives in the enactment by the Russia Government
                                                                      of a law ending inter-country adoptions of Russian chil-
                                                                      dren by United States citizens and urging the Russia
                                                                      Government to reconsider the law and prioritize the proc-
                                                                      essing of inter-country adoptions involving parentless
                                                                      Russian children who were already matched with United
rfrederick on DSK6VPTVN1PROD with                                     States families before the enactment of the law.
                                                                                                                              2
                                                                   Whereas United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) esti-
                                                                      mates that there are 740,000 children in Russia living
                                                                      without parental care;
                                                                   Whereas the Ministry of Science and Education of Russia es-
                                                                      timates that 110,000 children live in state institutions in
                                                                      Russia;
                                                                   Whereas the number of adoptions by Russian families is mod-
                                                                      est, with only 7,400 domestic adoptions in 2011 com-
                                                                      pared with 3,400 adoptions of Russian children by fami-
                                                                      lies abroad;
                                                                   Whereas, on December 28, 2012, Russian Federation Presi-
                                                                      dent Vladimir Putin signed into law legislation entitled
                                                                      ‘‘On Measures Concerning the Implementation of Govern-
                                                                      ment Policy on Orphaned Children and those without Pa-
                                                                      rental Care’’, which includes language that permanently
                                                                      bans adoptions of Russian children by United States citi-
                                                                      zens;
                                                                   Whereas a spokesman for President Putin, Dmitry Peskov,
                                                                      announced that the law is to take effect on January 1,
                                                                      2013, thereby abrogating the bilateral agreement between
                                                                      Russia and the United States that entered into force on
                                                                      November 1, 2012, and requires both countries to pro-
                                                                      vide one year notice of intent to terminate the agreement;
                                                                   Whereas 46, and possibly more, inter-country adoptions of
                                                                      Russian children by United States families have already
                                                                      received a final adoption decree from the Russia judicial
                                                                      system, and hundreds of other United States families are
                                                                      in the process of adopting Russian children;
rfrederick on DSK6VPTVN1PROD with                                  Whereas United Nations Children’s Fund released a state-
                                                                      ment urging the Russia Government to ensure that ‘‘the
                                                                      current plight of the many Russian children in institu-

                                                                                •HRES 24 IH

                                                                                                                              3
                                                                           tions receives priority attention’’ and that the Russia
                                                                           Government consider alternatives to institutionalization
                                                                           including ‘‘domestic adoption and inter-country adop-
                                                                           tion’’;
                                                                   Whereas the United Nations, the Hague Conference on Pri-
                                                                      vate International Law, and other international organiza-
                                                                      tions have recognized a child’s right to a family as a
                                                                      basic human right worthy of protection;
                                                                   Whereas the Christian Alliance for Orphans reports that
                                                                      United States families have opened their homes to more
                                                                      than 179,000 orphans from overseas in the last 20 years;
                                                                   Whereas after China and Ethiopia, Russia is the third most
                                                                      popular country for United States citizens who adopt
                                                                      internationally;
                                                                   Whereas adoption, both domestic and international, is an im-
                                                                      portant child protection tool and an integral part of child
                                                                      welfare best practices around the world, along with pre-
                                                                      vention of abandonment and family reunification; and
                                                                   Whereas more than 60,000 Russia-born children have found
                                                                      safe, permanent, and loving homes with United States
                                                                      families over the last two decades: Now, therefore, be it
                                                                     1               Resolved, That the House of Representatives—
                                                                     2                        (1) affirms that all children deserve a perma-
                                                                     3               nent, protective family;
                                                                     4                        (2) values the long tradition of the United
                                                                     5               States and Russia Governments working together to
                                                                     6               find permanent homes for unparented children;
                                                                     7
rfrederick on DSK6VPTVN1PROD with




                                                                                              (3) disapproves of the Russia law ending inter-
                                                                     8               country adoptions of Russian children by United

                                                                                •HRES 24 IH

                                                                                                                              4
                                                                     1               States citizens because it primarily harms vulnerable
                                                                     2               and voiceless children; and
                                                                     3                        (4) strongly urges the Russia Government to
                                                                     4               reconsider the law on humanitarian grounds, in con-
                                                                     5               sideration of the well-being of parentless Russian
                                                                     6               children awaiting a loving and permanent family,
                                                                     7               and prioritize the processing of inter-country adop-
                                                                     8               tions of Russian children by United States citizens
                                                                     9               that were initiated before the enactment of the law.
                                                                                                                              Æ
rfrederick on DSK6VPTVN1PROD with




                                                                                •HRES 24 IH

