                                                                                                                                   IV




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       H. RES. 56
                                     Celebrating the life of President Ronald Wilson Reagan on the anniversary
                                                                     of his birth.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                              FEBRUARY 6, 2013
                                  Mr. FRANKS of Arizona (for himself, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr. SALMON, Mr.
                                      GOSAR, Mr. HULTGREN, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. MILLER of Florida, Mr.
                                      BENTIVOLIO, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr. NEUGEBAUER, Mr. HARPER, Mr.
                                      HALL, Mr. ROE of Tennessee, Mr. OLSON, Mr. MARCHANT, Mr. BARTON,
                                      Mr. DAINES, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. COTTON, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. BROOKS of
                                      Alabama, Mr. STEWART, Mr. FLEMING, Mr. PEARCE, Mr. RADEL, Mr.
                                      CHABOT, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr. GARDNER,
                                      Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, Mr. MULVANEY, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr.
                                      ROKITA, Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. KINGSTON, Mr. PITTENGER, Mr. CONAWAY,
                                      and Mr. FLEISCHMANN) submitted the following resolution; which was re-
                                      ferred to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform




                                                              RESOLUTION
                                     Celebrating the life of President Ronald Wilson Reagan on
                                                    the anniversary of his birth.

                                  Whereas, on February 6, 1911, Ronald Wilson Reagan was
                                     born to Nelle and John Reagan in Tampico, Illinois;
                                  Whereas Ronald Reagan’s childhood years laid the foundation
                                     for his becoming a man of unfettered principle, who was
                                     not afraid to do what was right, and who was tenaciously





                                     committed to doing only that which he believed was right
                                     in his own heart, regardless of any political cost;


                                                                                             2
                                  Whereas his small-town values of hard work and commitment
                                     to God and family were deeply rooted in his early child-
                                     hood experiences;
                                  Whereas as a young man in Illinois, Ronald Reagan saved 77
                                     people from drowning through his courage, physical
                                     strength, and vigilance as a lifeguard;
                                  Whereas he attended high school in nearby Dixon, Illinois,
                                     and then worked his way through Eureka College, where
                                     he studied economics and sociology, played on the football
                                     team, and acted in school plays;
                                  Whereas in 1937, a screen test won him a contract in Holly-
                                     wood, leading to his appearance in over 53 films over the
                                     next 2 decades;
                                  Whereas beginning in 1947, Ronald Reagan served as Presi-
                                     dent of the Screen Actors Guild for 13 years;
                                  Whereas, on March 4, 1952, Ronald Reagan married Nancy
                                     Davis, who remained his best friend and lifelong com-
                                     panion and confidant for more than 5 decades;
                                  Whereas in 1966, Ronald Reagan was elected as the 33rd
                                     Governor of California, and won reelection 4 years later;
                                  Whereas Ronald Reagan believed in United States
                                     exceptionalism and asserted that the Nation has a unique
                                     role to play in the world;
                                  Whereas in 1980, Ronald Reagan won the Republican presi-
                                     dential nomination and was subsequently elected the 40th
                                     President of the United States, winning reelection again
                                     in 1984 and becoming the first president in 3 decades to
                                     serve 2 full terms;





                                  Whereas Ronald Reagan declared in 1981 in a speech at the
                                     University of Notre Dame that, ‘‘the West will not con-

                                              •HRES 56 IH

                                                                                             3
                                          tain communism, it will transcend communism’’, and
                                          stated that ‘‘For the West, for America, the time has
                                          come to dare to show to the world that our civilized
                                          ideas, our traditions, our values, are not—like the ide-
                                          ology and war machine of totalitarian societies—just a
                                          facade of strength. It is time for the world to know our
                                          intellectual and spiritual values are rooted in the source
                                          of all strength, a belief in a Supreme Being, and a law
                                          higher than our own’’, thereby recognizing that the
                                          source of the Nation’s strength and ultimately its victory
                                          over communism would come from God, the ‘‘source of
                                          all strength’’;
                                  Whereas in June 1982, Ronald Reagan lifted up the flagging
                                     morale of the democracies and gave hope to millions liv-
                                     ing under communist rule with an address to the British
                                     Parliament at Westminster Hall in which he proclaimed
                                     an imminent free world victory in the Cold War that
                                     would leave communist totalitarianism, like Nazi totali-
                                     tarianism before it, ‘‘on the ash heap of history’’;
                                  Whereas, on March 8, 1983, President Reagan warned all
                                     people in the Nation to beware of the temptation to draw
                                     a moral equivalence between the United States and the
                                     Soviet Union, and the tendency to ignore the facts of his-
                                     tory and the ‘‘aggressive impulses of an evil empire, to
                                     simply call the arms race a giant misunderstanding and
                                     thereby remove ourselves from the struggle between right
                                     and wrong, good and evil’’, thereby educating people in
                                     the United States about the moral bankruptcy of Soviet
                                     communism and reminding them that ‘‘the real crisis
                                     that we face is a spiritual one; at root, it is a test of





                                     moral will and faith’’;



                                              •HRES 56 IH

                                                                                             4
                                  Whereas, on March 23, 1983, President Reagan gave a land-
                                     mark speech at the zenith of the Cold War, in which he
                                     proposed what became known as the Strategic Defense
                                     Initiative, to protect the United States, its allies, and its
                                     vital interests from ballistic missile attack, thereby put-
                                     ting the United States on a path to ending its vulner-
                                     ability to missile attack and harnessing the Nation’s sci-
                                     entific and technological advantages in support of a mili-
                                     tary effort that the Soviet Union ultimately could not
                                     match;
                                  Whereas less than 6 years later, the world watched the Revo-
                                     lutions of 1989 which culminated in the fall of the Berlin
                                     Wall, the disintegration of communism, and the dissolu-
                                     tion of the once unshakeable Soviet Union;
                                  Whereas Ronald Reagan made millions of people believe
                                     again that the United States was still capable of being
                                     victorious, of rising out of and above difficult cir-
                                     cumstances, and of facing devastating challenges;
                                  Whereas Ronald Reagan believed in the sanctity of all human
                                     life, saying ‘‘[w]e cannot diminish the value of one cat-
                                     egory of human life—the unborn—without diminishing
                                     the value of all human life’’;
                                  Whereas Ronald Reagan stated that ‘‘the future does not be-
                                     long to the fainthearted; it belongs to the brave’’, and de-
                                     sired for people of the United States to continue to make
                                     the Nation great by preserving its goodness, by perse-
                                     vering in the struggle between right and wrong and good
                                     and evil;
                                  Whereas the policies of the Reagan Administration led to an





                                     enduring economic recovery, the defeat of Soviet com-



                                              •HRES 56 IH

                                                                                             5
                                          munism, and a renewal of United States patriotism and
                                          self-confidence;
                                  Whereas in his Farewell Address, President Reagan warned
                                     of the need to develop an ‘‘informed patriotism’’ so that
                                     we can teach our children ‘‘what America is and what she
                                     represents in the long history of the world’’, thereby
                                     warning that if we forget our history, we won’t know who
                                     we are;
                                  Whereas Ronald Reagan’s life was a transformed one, one
                                     that reflected a light from within, and one that he will-
                                     ingly shared in the brightness and warmth of his smile
                                     and in his grace and good humor;
                                  Whereas Ronald Reagan’s faith in God, and his love of family
                                     and country were evident and strong even to the end of
                                     his life;
                                  Whereas Ronald Reagan was a patriotic, humble leader and
                                     noble American for 93 years;
                                  Whereas hundreds of millions of people now live in freedom
                                     because of Ronald Reagan’s conviction and courage; and
                                  Whereas Ronald Reagan stated that ‘‘freedom is never more
                                     than one generation away from extinction’’ and called
                                     upon all the people of the United States to remember
                                     their ‘‘rendezvous with destiny’’: Now, therefore, be it
                                    1              Resolved, That the House of Representatives—
                                    2                        (1) celebrates the extraordinary life of Presi-
                                    3              dent Ronald Wilson Reagan on the anniversary of
                                    4              his birth and expresses its deepest appreciation for




                                    5              his profound public service; and
                                              •HRES 56 IH

                                                                                             6
                                    1                        (2) recognizes the significance of the Presidency
                                    2              of Ronald Wilson Reagan, and its enduring legacy
                                    3              for the United States and the rest of the world, and
                                    4              expresses its commitment to protect, affirm, and de-
                                    5              fend the heritage of human freedom left by Presi-
                                    6              dent Ronald Wilson Reagan.
                                              •HRES 56 IH                                  Æ
