H. Res. 5




In the House of Representatives, U. S.,        January 3, 2013.
    Resolved, That the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives of the One Hundred Twelfth Congress, including appli-
cable provisions of law or concurrent resolution that con-
stituted rules of the House at the end of the One Hundred
Twelfth Congress, are adopted as the Rules of the House of
Representatives of the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress,
with amendments to the standing rules as provided in section
2, and with other orders as provided in sections 3, 4, and 5.
SEC. 2. CHANGES TO THE STANDING RULES.

    (a) COMMITTEE ACTIVITY REPORTS.—In clause 1(d) of
rule XI—
         (1) in subparagraph (1), strike ‘‘the 30th day after
    June 1 and December 1’’ and insert ‘‘January 2 of each
    year’’ and strike ‘‘semiannual’’;
         (2) in subparagraph (2)(B), insert ‘‘in each Con-
    gress’’ after ‘‘first such report’’; and
         (3) in subparagraph (3), strike ‘‘second or fourth
    semiannual’’.
(b) VOTING.—            2
    (1) In clause 6 of rule XVIII—
         (A) in subparagraph (b)(3), strike ‘‘five min-
    utes’’ and insert ‘‘not less than two minutes’’; and
         (B) amend paragraph (g) to read as follows:
    ‘‘(g) The Chair may postpone a request for a re-
corded vote on any amendment. The Chair may resume
proceedings on a postponed request at any time. The
Chair may reduce to not less than two minutes the min-
imum time for electronic voting—
         ‘‘(1) on any postponed question that follows
    another electronic vote without intervening business,
    provided that the minimum time for electronic vot-
    ing on the first in any series of questions shall be
    15 minutes; or
         ‘‘(2) on any postponed question taken without
    intervening debate or motion after the Committee of
    the Whole resumes its sitting if in the discretion of
    the Chair Members would be afforded an adequate
    opportunity to vote.’’.
    (2) In rule XX—
         (A) amend clause 8(c) to read as follows:
    ‘‘(c) The Speaker may reduce to five minutes the
minimum time for electronic voting on a question post-




 •HRES 5 EH                 3
    poned under this clause, or on a question incidental
    thereto, that—
             ‘‘(1) follows another electronic vote without in-
         tervening business, so long as the minimum time for
         electronic voting on the first in any series of ques-
         tions is 15 minutes; or
             ‘‘(2) follows a report from the Committee of
         the Whole without intervening debate or motion if
         in the discretion of the Speaker Members would be
         afforded an adequate opportunity to vote.’’; and
             (B) amend clause 9 to read as follows:
    ‘‘9. The Speaker may reduce to five minutes the min-
imum time for electronic voting—
         ‘‘(a) on any question arising without intervening
    business after an electronic vote on another question if
    notice of possible five-minute voting for a given series of
    votes was issued before the preceding electronic vote;
         ‘‘(b) on any question arising after a report from the
    Committee of the Whole without debate or intervening
    motion; or
         ‘‘(c) on the question of adoption of a motion to re-
    commit (or ordering the previous question thereon) aris-
    ing without intervening motion or debate other than de-
    bate on the motion.’’.




     •HRES 5 EH                4
     (c) CLARIFICATIONS     IN   RULE X.—In clause 1 of rule
X—
          (1) in paragraph (j)(2), strike ‘‘Organization and
     administration’’ and insert ‘‘Organization, administra-
     tion, and general management’’; and
          (2) in paragraph (m)(9), strike ‘‘Insular posses-
     sions’’ and insert ‘‘Insular areas’’.
     (d) MODIFICATION       OF       THE   RAMSEYER RULE.—In
clause 3(e)(1)(B) of rule XIII, insert ‘‘and adjacent provi-
sions if useful to enable the intent and effect of the amend-
ment to be clearly understood,’’ before ‘‘showing’’.
     (e) CHANGES     TO THE      CODE      OF   CONDUCT   AND THE

COMMITTEE    ON    ETHICS.—
          (1) In clause 3(b)(8) of rule XI—
          lows:(A) amend subdivision (A)(ii) to read as fol-
                         ‘‘(ii) upon the day of such decision or
                     vote, make a public statement that the
                     matter, relating to the referral made by
                     the board of the Office of Congressional
                     Ethics regarding the Member, officer, or
                     employee of the House who is the subject
                     of the applicable referral, has been ex-
                     tended.’’; and
               (B) in subdivision (B)(ii)—


      •HRES 5 EH          5
              (i) strike ‘‘the committee votes to extend
         the matter’’ and insert ‘‘the matter is ex-
         tended’’; and
              (ii) strike ‘‘the committee has voted to ex-
         tend the matter’’ and insert ‘‘the matter has
         been extended’’.
    (2) In clause 8(c) of rule XXIII—
         (A) strike ‘‘spouse’’ in each place it appears
    and insert (in each instance) ‘‘relative’’;
         (B) in subparagraph (2), strike ‘‘One Hundred
    Seventh Congress’’ and insert ‘‘One Hundred Thir-
    teenth Congress’’; and
         (C) add the following new subparagraph:
         ‘‘(3) As used in this paragraph, the term ‘rel-
    ative’ means an individual who is related to the
    Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner as fa-
    ther, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle,
    aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, fa-
    ther-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-
    law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, step-
    mother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, step-
    sister, half brother, half sister, grandson, or grand-
    daughter.’’.
    (3) In clause 13 of rule XXIII, strike ‘‘Copies of
the executed oath (or affirmation) shall be retained by


 •HRES 5 EH             6
the Clerk as part of the records of the House.’’ and in-
sert ‘‘Copies of the executed oath (or affirmation) shall
be retained as part of the records of the House, in the
case of a Member, Delegate, or the Resident Commis-
sioner, by the Clerk, and in the case of an officer or em-
ployee of the House, by the Sergeant-at-Arms.’’.
    (4) In clause 15 of rule XXIII—
         (A) in paragraph (a), strike ‘‘paragraph (b)’’
    and insert ‘‘paragraphs (b) and (c)’’;
         (B) in paragraph (b)—
         lows:(i) amend subparagraph (3) to read as fol-
         ‘‘(3) the flight consists of the personal use of
    an aircraft by a Member, Delegate, or the Resident
    Commissioner that is supplied by—
              ‘‘(A) an individual on the basis of personal
         friendship; or
              ‘‘(B) another Member, Delegate, or the
         Resident Commissioner;’’;
              (ii) in subparagraph (4), strike the period
         and insert ‘‘; or’’; and
              (iii) add the following:
         ‘‘(5) the owner or operator of the aircraft is
    paid a pro rata share of the fair market value of
    the normal and usual charter fare or rental charge


 •HRES 5 EH              7
     for a comparable plane of comparable size as deter-
     mined by dividing such cost by the number of Mem-
     bers, Delegates, or the Resident Commissioner, offi-
     cers, or employees of Congress on the flight.’’; and
           (C) redesignate paragraph (c) as paragraph (d)
     and insert after paragraph (b) the following new
     paragraph:
     ‘‘(c) An advance written request for a waiver of the
restriction in paragraph (a) may be granted jointly by
the chair and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Ethics, subject to such conditions as they may
prescribe.’’.
(f) TECHNICAL     AND   CLARIFYING CHANGES.—
     (1) In clause 12(b)(2) of rule I, strike ‘‘Chair of the
Committee of the Whole’’ and insert ‘‘chair of the Com-
mittee of the Whole’’.
     (2) In clause 6(c)(4) of rule II, before ‘‘the Com-
mittee on House Administration’’ insert ‘‘the Committee
on Appropriations and’’.
     (3) In rule V—
           (A) in clause 1, strike ‘‘telecommunications’’
     each place it appears and insert (in each instance)
     ‘‘communications’’;




 •HRES 5 EH                8
            (B) in clause 2(a), strike ‘‘recording of the
     proceedings’’ and insert ‘‘recording of the floor pro-
     ceedings’’; and
            (C) in clause 2(c)(1), strike ‘‘political purpose’’
     and insert ‘‘partisan political campaign purpose’’.
     (4) In clause 2(b) of rule XI, strike ‘‘unless other-
wise provided by written rule adopted by the committee’’
and insert ‘‘if notice is given pursuant to paragraph
(g)(3)’’.
     (5) In clause 2(c)(2) of rule XI, before the last sen-
tence, insert ‘‘Such notice shall also be made publicly
available in electronic form and shall be deemed to sat-
isfy paragraph (g)(3)(A)(ii).’’.
     (6) In clause 2(e)(1)(A)(ii) of rule XI, strike
‘‘record vote is demanded’’ and insert ‘‘record vote is
taken’’.
     (7) In clause 2(e)(2)(A) of rule XI, strike ‘‘all com-
mittee hearings, records, data, charts, and files’’ and in-
sert ‘‘all committee records (including hearings, data,
charts, and files)’’.
     (8) In clause 2(l) of rule XI—
            (A) strike ‘‘that member shall be entitled’’ and
     insert ‘‘all members shall be entitled’’; and




 •HRES 5 EH                  9
          (B) strike ‘‘to file such views, in writing and
     signed by that member,’’ and insert ‘‘to file such
     written and signed views’’.
     (9) In clause 3(h) of rule XI—
          (A) strike ‘‘(h)(1)’’ and insert ‘‘(h)’’; and
          (B) redesignate subdivisions (A) and (B) as
     subparagraphs (1) and (2), respectively.
     (10) In clause 6(g) of rule XIII, strike ‘‘it shall (to
the maximum extent possible) specify in the resolution
the object of’’ and insert ‘‘it shall to the maximum ex-
tent possible specify in the accompanying report’’.
     (11) In clause 2 of rule XV, strike ‘‘standing’’ each
place it appears.
     (12) In clause 6 of rule XV, add the following new
paragraph:
     ‘‘(d) Precedents, rulings, or procedures in effect be-
fore the One Hundred Eleventh Congress regarding the
priority of business and the availability of other business
on Wednesday shall be applied only to the extent con-
sistent with this clause.’’.
     (13) In clause 5(c)(3)(B) of rule XX, after ‘‘Minor-
ity Leader’’ each place it appears insert (in each in-
stance) ‘‘(or their respective designees)’’.
     (14) In clause 8(a)(1) of rule XXII—




 •HRES 5 EH                     10
                 (A) in subdivision (A), after ‘‘in the Congres-
            sional Record’’ insert ‘‘or pursuant to clause 3 of
            rule XXIX’’; and
                 (B) in subdivision (B), before ‘‘copies’’ insert
            ‘‘printed or electronic’’.
            (15) In clause 2 of rule XXIV, strike ‘‘Clerk’’ and
    insert ‘‘Chief Administrative Officer’’.
            (16) In clause 1 of rule XXVI, strike the second
    sentence.
SEC. 3. SEPARATE ORDERS.

    (a) INDEPENDENT PAYMENT ADVISORY BOARD.—Sec-
tion 1899A(d) of the Social Security Act shall not apply in
the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress.
    (b) BUDGET MATTERS.—
            (1) During the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress,
    references in section 306 of the Congressional Budget
    Act of 1974 to a resolution shall be construed in the
    House of Representatives as references to a joint resolu-
    tion.   (2) During the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress,
    in the case of a reported bill or joint resolution consid-
    ered pursuant to a special order of business, a point of
    order under section 303 of the Congressional Budget Act
    of 1974 shall be determined on the basis of the text
    made in order as an original bill or joint resolution for


     •HRES 5 EH        11
the purpose of amendment or to the text on which the
previous question is ordered directly to passage, as the
case may be.
    (3) During the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress,
a provision in a bill or joint resolution, or in an amend-
ment thereto or a conference report thereon, that estab-
lishes prospectively for a Federal office or position a
specified or minimum level of compensation to be funded
by annual discretionary appropriations shall not be con-
sidered as providing new entitlement authority within
the meaning of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    (4)(A) During the One Hundred Thirteenth Con-
gress, except as provided in subparagraph (C), a motion
that the Committee of the Whole rise and report a bill
to the House shall not be in order if the bill, as amend-
ed, exceeds an applicable allocation of new budget au-
thority under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budg-
et Act of 1974, as estimated by the Committee on the
Budget.   (B) If a point of order under subparagraph (A)
    is sustained, the Chair shall put the question:
    ‘‘Shall the Committee of the Whole rise and report
    the bill to the House with such amendments as may
    have been adopted notwithstanding that the bill ex-
    ceeds its allocation of new budget authority under


 •HRES 5 EH             12
   section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act of
   1974?’’. Such question shall be debatable for 10
   minutes equally divided and controlled by a pro-
   ponent of the question and an opponent but shall
   be decided without intervening motion.
        (C) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply—
             (i) to a motion offered under clause 2(d)
        of rule XXI; or
             (ii) after disposition of a question under
        subparagraph (B) on a given bill.
        (D) If a question under subparagraph (B) is
   decided in the negative, no further amendment shall
   be in order except—
             (i) one proper amendment, which shall be
        debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and
        controlled by the proponent and an opponent,
        shall not be subject to amendment, and shall
        not be subject to a demand for division of the
        question in the House or in the Committee of
        the Whole; and
             (ii) pro forma amendments, if offered by
        the chair or ranking minority member of the
        Committee on Appropriations or their des-
        ignees, for the purpose of debate.




•HRES 5 EH                13
         (5) During the first session of the One Hundred
    Thirteenth Congress, pending the adoption of a concur-
    rent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2014, the
    provisions of House Concurrent Resolution 112, One
    Hundred Twelfth Congress, as adopted by the House,
    shall have force and effect in the House as though Con-
    gress has adopted such concurrent resolution, and the
    allocations of spending authority printed in tables 11
    and 12 of House Report 112–421 (One Hundred
    Twelfth Congress) shall be considered for all purposes in
    the House to be the allocations under section 302(a) of
    the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    (c) DETERMINATIONS     FOR   PAYGO ACTS.—In deter-
mining the budgetary effects of any legislation for the pur-
poses of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of
2010 (including the required designation in PAYGO Acts),
the chair of the Committee on the Budget may make adjust-
ments to take into account the exemptions and adjustments
set forth in section 503(b)(1) of House Concurrent Resolu-
tion 112, One Hundred Twelfth Congress.
    (d) SPENDING REDUCTION AMENDMENTS            IN   APPRO-
PRIATIONS   BILLS.—
         (1) During the reading of a general appropriation
    bill for amendment in the Committee of the Whole
    House on the state of the Union, it shall be in order to


     •HRES 5 EH        14
consider en bloc amendments proposing only to transfer
appropriations from an object or objects in the bill to a
spending reduction account. When considered en bloc
under this paragraph, such amendments may amend
portions of the bill not yet read for amendment (fol-
lowing disposition of any points of order against such
portions) and are not subject to a demand for division
of the question in the House or in the Committee of the
Whole.
    (2) Except as provided in paragraph (1), it shall
not be in order to consider an amendment to a spending
reduction account in the House or in the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
    (3) It shall not be in order to consider an amend-
ment to a general appropriation bill proposing a net in-
crease in budget authority in the bill (unless considered
en bloc with another amendment or amendments pro-
posing an equal or greater decrease in such budget au-
thority pursuant to clause 2(f) of rule XXI).
    (4) A point of order under clause 2(b) of rule XXI
shall not apply to a spending reduction account.
    (5) A general appropriation bill may not be consid-
ered in the Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union unless it includes a spending reduction ac-
count as the last section of the bill. An order to report


 •HRES 5 EH            15
a general appropriation bill to the House shall constitute
authority for the chair of the Committee on Appropria-
tions to add such a section to the bill or modify the fig-
ure contained therein.
    (6) For purposes of this subsection, the term
‘‘spending reduction account’’ means an account in a
general appropriation bill that bears that caption and
contains only a recitation of the amount by which an ap-
plicable allocation of new budget authority under section
302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 exceeds
the amount of new budget authority proposed by the bill.
(e) ESTIMATES   OF   DIRECT SPENDING.—
    (1) It shall not be in order to consider any concur-
rent resolution on the budget, or amendment thereto or
conference report thereon, unless it contains a separate
heading entitled ‘‘Direct Spending’’, which shall include
a category for ‘‘Means-Tested Direct Spending’’ and a
category for ‘‘Nonmeans-Tested Direct Spending’’ and
sets forth—
         (A) the average rate of growth for each cat-
    egory in the total amount of outlays during the 10-
    year period preceding the budget year;
         (B) estimates for each such category under
    current law for the period covered by the concurrent
    resolution; and


 •HRES 5 EH                16
              (C) information on proposed reforms in such
         categories.
         (2) Before the consideration of a concurrent resolu-
    tion on the budget by the Committee on the Budget for
    a fiscal year, the chair of the Committee on the Budget
    shall submit for printing in the Congressional Record a
    description of programs which shall be considered
    means-tested direct spending and nonmeans-tested direct
    spending for purposes of this subsection.
    (f) CERTAIN SUBCOMMITTEES.—Notwithstanding clause
5(d) of rule X, during the One Hundred Thirteenth Con-
gress— (1) the Committee on Armed Services may have not
    more than seven subcommittees;
         (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs may have not
    more than seven subcommittees; and
         (3) the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
    structure may have not more than six subcommittees.
    (g) EXERCISE FACILITIES       FOR   FORMER MEMBERS.—
During the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress—
         (1) The House of Representatives may not provide
    access to any exercise facility which is made available ex-
    clusively to Members and former Members, officers and
    former officers of the House of Representatives, and
    their spouses to any former Member, former officer, or


     •HRES 5 EH              17
     spouse who is a lobbyist registered under the Lobbying
     Disclosure Act of 1995 or any successor statute or agent
     of a foreign principal as defined in clause 5 of rule XXV.
     For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘Member’’ in-
     cludes a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Con-
     gress.
          (2) The Committee on House Administration shall
     promulgate regulations to carry out this subsection.
     (h) NUMBERING     OF   BILLS.—In the One Hundred Thir-
teenth Congress, the first 10 numbers for bills (H.R. 1
through H.R. 10) shall be reserved for assignment by the
Speaker and the second 10 numbers for bills (H.R. 11
through H.R. 20) shall be reserved for assignment by the Mi-
nority Leader.
     (i) INCLUSION   OF   UNITED STATES CODE CITATIONS.—
To the maximum extent practicable and consistent with es-
tablished drafting conventions, an instruction in a bill or joint
resolution proposing to repeal or amend any law or part
thereof not contained in a codified title of the United States
Code shall include, if available, the applicable United States
Code citation in parenthesis immediately following the des-
ignation of the matter proposed to be repealed or amended.
     (j) DUPLICATION   OF   FEDERAL PROGRAMS.—
          (1) The chair of a committee may request that the
     General Accountability Office perform a duplication


      •HRES 5 EH             18
analysis of any bill or joint resolution referred to that
committee. Any such analysis shall assess whether, and
the extent to which, the bill or joint resolution creates
a new Federal program, office, or initiative that dupli-
cates or overlaps with any existing Federal program, of-
fice, or initiative.
     (2) The report of a committee on a bill or joint res-
olution shall include a statement, as though under clause
3(c) of rule XIII, indicating whether any provision of the
measure establishes or reauthorizes a program of the
Federal Government known to be duplicative of another
Federal program. The statement shall at a minimum ex-
plain whether—
           (A) any such program was included in any re-
     port from the Government Accountability Office to
     Congress pursuant to section 21 of Public Law
     111–139; or
           (B) the most recent Catalog of Federal Domes-
     tic Assistance, published pursuant to the Federal
     Program Information Act (Public Law 95–220, as
     amended by Public Law 98–169), identified other
     programs related to the program established or re-
     authorized by the measure.
(k) DISCLOSURE         OF   DIRECTED RULE MAKINGS.—




 •HRES 5 EH                19
        (1) The report of a committee on a bill or joint res-
    olution shall include a statement, as though under clause
    3(c) of rule XIII, estimating the number of directed rule
    makings required by the measure.
        (2) For purposes of this subparagraph, the term
    ‘‘directed rule making’’ means a specific rule making
    within the meaning of section 551 of title 5, United
    States Code, specifically directed to be completed by a
    provision in the measure, but does not include a grant
    of discretionary rule making authority.
SEC. 4. COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS, AND HOUSE OFFICES.

    (a) LITIGATION MATTERS.—
        (1) CONTINUING    AUTHORITY FOR THE BIPARTISAN

    LEGAL ADVISORY GROUP.—

             (A) The House authorizes the Bipartisan Legal
        Advisory Group of the One Hundred Thirteenth
        Congress—
                  (i) to act as successor in interest to the
             Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group of the One
             Hundred Twelfth Congress with respect to civil
             actions in which it intervened in the One Hun-
             dred Twelfth Congress to defend the constitu-
             tionality of section 3 of the Defense of Mar-
             riage Act (1 U.S.C. 7) or related provisions of
             titles 10, 31, and 38, United States Code, in-


     •HRES 5 EH        20
         cluding in the case of Windsor v. United
         States, 833 F. Supp.2d 394 (S.D.N.Y. June 6,
         2012), aff’d, 699 F.3d 169 (2d Cir. Oct. 18,
         2012), cert. granted, No. 12–307 (Dec. 7,
         2012), cert. pending No. 12–63 (July 16,
         2012) and 12–785 (Dec. 28, 2012);
              (ii) to take such steps as may be appro-
         priate to ensure continuation of such civil ac-
         tions; and
              (iii) to intervene in other cases that in-
         volve a challenge to the constitutionality of sec-
         tion 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act or re-
         lated provisions of titles 10, 31, and 38,
         United States Code.
         (B) Pursuant to clause 8 of rule II, the Bipar-
    tisan Legal Advisory Group continues to speak for,
    and articulate the institutional position of, the
    House in all litigation matters in which it appears,
    including in Windsor v. United States.
    (2) CONTINUING      AUTHORITIES     FOR    THE   COM-

MITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND GOVERNMENT REFORM AND

THE OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNSEL.—

         (A) The House authorizes—
              (i) the Committee on Oversight and Gov-
         ernment Reform of the One Hundred Thir-


 •HRES 5 EH           21
        teenth Congress to act as the successor in in-
        terest to the Committee on Oversight and Gov-
        ernment Reform of the One Hundred Twelfth
        Congress with respect to the civil action Com-
        mittee on Oversight and Government Reform,
        United States House of Representatives v. Eric
        H. Holder, Jr., in his official capacity as Attor-
        ney General of the United States, filed by the
        Committee on Oversight and Government Re-
        form in the One Hundred Twelfth Congress
        pursuant to House Resolution 706; and
             (ii) the chair of the Committee on Over-
        sight and Government Reform (when elected),
        on behalf of the Committee on Oversight and
        Government Reform, and the Office of General
        Counsel to take such steps as may be appro-
        priate to ensure continuation of such civil ac-
        tion, including amending the complaint as cir-
        cumstances may warrant.
        (B) The House authorizes the chair of the
   Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
   (when elected), on behalf of the Committee on Over-
   sight and Government Reform and until such com-
   mittee has adopted rules pursuant to clause 2(a) of
   rule XI, to issue subpoenas related to the investiga-


•HRES 5 EH           22
   tion into the United States Department of Justice
   operation known as ‘‘Fast and Furious’’ and related
   matters.
        (C) The House authorizes the chair of the
   Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
   (when elected), on behalf of the Committee on Over-
   sight and Government Reform, and the Office of
   General Counsel to petition to join as a party to the
   civil action referenced in paragraph (1) any indi-
   vidual subpoenaed by the Committee on Oversight
   and Government Reform of the One Hundred
   Twelfth Congress as part of its investigation into
   the United States Department of Justice operation
   known as ‘‘Fast and Furious’’ and related matters
   who failed to comply with such subpoena, or any
   successor to such individual.
        (D) The House authorizes the chair of the
   Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
   (when elected), on behalf of the Committee on Over-
   sight and Government Reform, and the Office of
   General Counsel, at the authorization of the Speak-
   er after consultation with the Bipartisan Legal Ad-
   visory Group, to initiate judicial proceedings con-
   cerning the enforcement of subpoenas issued to
   such individuals.


•HRES 5 EH                  23
    (b) HOUSE DEMOCRACY PARTNERSHIP.—House Resolu-
tion 24, One Hundred Tenth Congress, shall apply in the
One Hundred Thirteenth Congress in the same manner as
such resolution applied in the One Hundred Tenth Congress
except that the commission concerned shall be known as the
House Democracy Partnership.
    (c) TOM LANTOS HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.—Sec-
tions 1 through 7 of House Resolution 1451, One Hundred
Tenth Congress, shall apply in the One Hundred Thirteenth
Congress in the same manner as such provisions applied in
the One Hundred Tenth Congress, except that—
         (1) the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission
    may, in addition to collaborating closely with other pro-
    fessional staff members of the Committee on Foreign Af-
    fairs, collaborate closely with professional staff members
    of other relevant committees; and
         (2) the resources of the Committee on Foreign Af-
    fairs which the Commission may use shall include all re-
    sources which the Committee is authorized to obtain
    from other offices of the House of Representatives.
    (d) OFFICE    OF   CONGRESSIONAL ETHICS.—Section 1 of
House Resolution 895, One Hundred Tenth Congress, shall
apply in the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress in the same
manner as such provision applied in the One Hundred Tenth
Congress, except that—


     •HRES 5 EH               24
          (1) the Office of Congressional Ethics shall be
      treated as a standing committee of the House for pur-
      poses of section 202(i) of the Legislative Reorganization
      Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i));
          (2) references to the Committee on Standards of
      Official Conduct shall be construed as references to the
      Committee on Ethics;
          (3) the second sentence of section 1(b)(6)(A) shall
      not apply; and
          (4) members subject to section 1(b)(6)(B) may be
      reappointed for a second additional term.
      (e) EMPANELING INVESTIGATIVE SUBCOMMITTEE              OF

THE   COMMITTEE     ON   STANDARDS    OF   OFFICIAL CONDUCT.—
The text of House Resolution 451, One Hundred Tenth Con-
gress, shall apply in the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress
in the same manner as such provision applied in the One
Hundred Tenth Congress.
SEC. 5. ADDITIONAL ORDERS OF BUSINESS.

      (a) READING      OF THE   CONSTITUTION.—The Speaker
may recognize a Member for the Reading of the Constitution
on any legislative day through January 15, 2013.
      (b) MOTIONS   TO   SUSPEND     THE   RULES.—It shall be in
order at any time on the legislative day of January 4, 2013,
for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend




       •HRES 5 EH         25
the rules, as though under clause 1 of rule XV, relating to
a measure addressing flood insurance.
    Attest:




                                                   Clerk.




      •HRES 5 EH
