                                                                                                                                   IV




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       H. RES. 60
                                        Expressing support for designation of the week of February 4 through
                                             February 8, 2013, as ‘‘National School Counseling Week’’.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                   ´          FEBRUARY 6, 2013
                                  Ms. LINDA T. SANCHEZ of California (for herself, Ms. BORDALLO, Mr.
                                                                                      ´
                                      BRALEY of Iowa, Ms. BROWN of Florida, Mr. CARDENAS, Mr. GRIJALVA,
                                      Mr. LANGEVIN, Ms. LEE of California, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. MICHAUD,
                                      Mrs. NEGRETE MCLEOD, Mr. POLIS, Mr. RANGEL, Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
                                      ginia, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. TAKANO, and Mr. YARMUTH) sub-
                                      mitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on
                                      Education and the Workforce




                                                              RESOLUTION
                                  Expressing support for designation of the week of February
                                     4 through February 8, 2013, as ‘‘National School Coun-
                                     seling Week’’.

                                  Whereas the American School Counselor Association has de-
                                     clared the week of February 4 through February 8,
                                     2013, as ‘‘National School Counseling Week’’;
                                  Whereas the House of Representatives has recognized the im-
                                     portance of school counseling through the inclusion of el-
                                     ementary and secondary school counseling programs in





                                     the last reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary
                                     Education Act of 1965;



                                                                                             2
                                  Whereas school counselors have long advocated that the edu-
                                     cation system of the United States must provide equi-
                                     table opportunities for all students;
                                  Whereas school counselors have long emphasized the impor-
                                     tance of personal and social development in contributing
                                     to academic achievement;
                                  Whereas school counselors help develop well-rounded students
                                     by guiding them through their academic, personal, social,
                                     and career development;
                                  Whereas school counselors play a vital role in ensuring that
                                     students are college and career ready and aware of finan-
                                     cial aid and college opportunities;
                                  Whereas school counselors may encourage students to pursue
                                     challenging academic courses to prepare them for college
                                     majors and careers in the science, technology, engineer-
                                     ing, and mathematics fields;
                                  Whereas school counselors provide support for students whose
                                     family members have been deployed to conflicts overseas;
                                  Whereas school counselors help students cope with serious
                                     and common challenges of growing up, including peer
                                     pressure, bullying, mental health issues, school violence,
                                     disciplinary problems, and problems in the home;
                                  Whereas school counselors are also instrumental in helping
                                     students, teachers, and parents cope with trauma and
                                     community and national tragedies;
                                  Whereas school counselors are among the few professionals in
                                     a school building that are trained in both education and
                                     mental health;





                                  Whereas despite the important contributions of school coun-
                                     selors to student success, counseling positions are not al-

                                              •HRES 60 IH

                                                                                             3
                                          ways protected when local budgets are cut, especially in
                                          tough economic times;
                                  Whereas the average student-to-counselor ratio in America’s
                                     public schools, 471-to-1, is almost double the 250-to-1
                                     ratio recommended by the American School Counselor
                                     Association, the National Association for College Admis-
                                     sion Counseling, and other organizations;
                                  Whereas the celebration of ‘‘National School Counseling
                                     Week’’ would increase awareness of the important and
                                     necessary role school counselors play in the lives of stu-
                                     dents in the United States; and
                                  Whereas the week of February 4 through February 8, 2013,
                                     would be an appropriate week to designate as ‘‘National
                                     School Counseling Week’’: Now, therefore, be it
                                    1              Resolved, That the United States House of Rep-
                                    2 resentatives—
                                    3                        (1) honors and recognizes the contributions of
                                    4              school counselors to the success of students in our
                                    5              Nation’s elementary and secondary schools; and
                                    6                        (2) encourages the people of the United States
                                    7              to observe ‘‘National School Counseling Week’’ with
                                    8              appropriate ceremonies and activities that promote
                                    9              awareness of the crucial role school counselors play
                                  10               in preparing students for fulfilling lives as contrib-
                                  11               uting members of society.
                                              •HRES 60 IH                                  Æ
