H. Res. 66




In the House of Representatives, U. S.,   February 14, 2013.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it
shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 273)
to eliminate the 2013 statutory pay adjustment for Federal
employees. All points of order against consideration of the bill
are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points
of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The pre-
vious question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and
on any amendment thereto to final passage without inter-
vening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform; and
(2) one motion to recommit.
    SEC. 2. During any recess or adjournment of not more
than three days, if in the opinion of the Speaker the public
interest so warrants, then the Speaker or his designee, after
consultation with the Minority Leader, may reconvene the
House at a time other than that previously appointed, within
                               2
the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the Constitution,
and notify Members accordingly.
     SEC. 3. It shall be in order at any time through the leg-
islative day of February 15, 2013, for the Speaker to enter-
tain motions that the House suspend the rules, as though
under clause 1 of rule XV, relating to a measure condemning
the government of North Korea and its February 12, 2013,
test of a nuclear device.
     SEC. 4. On any legislative day during the period from
February 16, 2013, through February 22, 2013—
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day
shall be considered as approved; and
     (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House ad-
journed to meet at a date and time, within the limits of
clause 4, section 5, article I of the Constitution, to be an-
nounced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
     SEC. 5. The Speaker may appoint Members to perform
the duties of the Chair for the duration of the period ad-
dressed by section 4 of this resolution as though under clause
8(a) of rule I.
     Attest:




                                                        Clerk.




      •HRES 66 EH
