                                                                                                                                   IV




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       H. RES. 80
                                                Supporting the goals and ideals of National Engineers Week.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                FEBRUARY 25, 2013
                                  Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr. ROHRABACHER, Ms. BORDALLO, Mr. HONDA,
                                      Mr. TONKO, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mrs. NEGRETE MCLEOD, Mr. BARTON,
                                      Mr. PETERS of California, Mr. MATHESON, Ms. EDWARDS, Mr. HOLT,
                                      and Mr. LEWIS) submitted the following resolution; which was referred
                                      to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and in addition to
                                      the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be subse-
                                      quently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such
                                      provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned




                                                              RESOLUTION
                                   Supporting the goals and ideals of National Engineers Week.

                                  Whereas engineers employ their scientific knowledge and ana-
                                     lytical skills for the betterment of the United States;
                                  Whereas the mission of the National Engineers Week Foun-
                                     dation is to sustain and grow a dynamic engineering pro-
                                     fession through outreach, education, celebration, and vol-
                                     unteerism as needed to keep the United States a global
                                     leader in engineering and engineering education;
                                  Whereas the sponsors of National Engineers Week are work-





                                     ing together to transform the engineering workforce




                                                                                             2
                                          through greater inclusion of women and underrepresented
                                          minorities;
                                  Whereas by engaging young students, parents, and educators
                                     in hands-on science, technology, engineering, and math,
                                     engineers help them discover how they can make a mean-
                                     ingful difference in the world;
                                  Whereas the partnership between engineers and teachers in-
                                     spires future generations of engineering and technology
                                     talent;
                                  Whereas tens of thousands of engineers and engineering stu-
                                     dents will serve their communities not only through their
                                     work but, at this time of year, by reaching into hundreds
                                     of local communities;
                                  Whereas engineers have helped meet the major global chal-
                                     lenges of our time, including providing state-of-the-art
                                     transportation and information technology infrastruc-
                                     tures, enhancing national security, and developing the
                                     clean energy technologies needed to power the people of
                                     the United States into the future;
                                  Whereas engineers are a crucial link in research, develop-
                                     ment, and the transformation of scientific discoveries into
                                     useful products and jobs, as the people of the United
                                     States look more than ever to engineers and their imagi-
                                     nation, knowledge, and analytical skills to meet the chal-
                                     lenges of the future;
                                  Whereas the National Science Board’s ‘‘Science and Engi-
                                     neering Indicators 2012’’ shows that while the number of
                                     students obtaining engineering degrees in the United
                                     States has reached an all-time high, the rates for women





                                     and underrepresented minorities do not reflect our na-


                                              •HRES 80 IH

                                                                                             3
                                          tional demographics, and the rate of growth in engineer-
                                          ing degrees trails that of China;
                                  Whereas a 2012 survey by the Intel Corporation indicates
                                     that United States teenagers are more likely to consider
                                     a degree in engineering after learning about what engi-
                                     neers do;
                                  Whereas only 4 percent of the Nation’s workforce is com-
                                     posed of scientists and engineers, this group dispropor-
                                     tionately creates jobs for the other 96 percent;
                                  Whereas National Engineers Week has grown into a formal
                                     coalition of more than 100 professional societies, major
                                     corporations, and government agencies that are dedicated
                                     to ensuring a diverse and well-educated engineering work-
                                     force, promoting literacy in science, technology, engineer-
                                     ing, and math, and raising public awareness and appre-
                                     ciation of the contributions of engineers to society;
                                  Whereas National Engineers Week is celebrated during the
                                     week of George Washington’s birthday to honor the con-
                                     tributions that the first United States President, a mili-
                                     tary engineer and land surveyor, made to engineering;
                                     and
                                  Whereas February 17, 2013, to February 23, 2013, has been
                                     designated as National Engineers Week by the National
                                     Engineers Week Foundation and the theme is, ‘‘Celebrate
                                     Awesome’’, spotlighting all the amazing things engineers
                                     do every day to make the world a better place: Now,
                                     therefore, be it
                                    1              Resolved, That the House of Representatives—





                                    2                        (1) supports the goals and ideals of National
                                    3              Engineers Week to increase understanding of and

                                              •HRES 80 IH

                                                                                             4
                                    1              interest in engineering and technology careers and to
                                    2              promote technological literacy and engineering edu-
                                    3              cation;
                                    4                        (2) recognizes that engineering education is a
                                    5              critical component of STEM (science, technology,
                                    6              engineering, and mathematics) education and essen-
                                    7              tial to improving the United States educational sys-
                                    8              tem and economic prosperity; and
                                    9                        (3) ensures that technological solutions de-
                                  10               signed by the engineering community can be ad-
                                  11               vanced through research, development, standardiza-
                                  12               tion, and innovation.
                                              •HRES 80 IH                                  Æ
