                                                                                                                                   IV




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       H. RES. 91
                                     Expressing support for designation of February 28, 2013, as Rare Disease
                                                                       Day.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                              FEBRUARY 28, 2013
                                  Mr. CARSON of Indiana (for himself, Mr. BURGESS, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr.
                                      CASSIDY, Mrs. CHRISTENSEN, Mr. CONYERS, Mr. CROWLEY, Mr. HOLT,
                                      Mr. LANCE, Ms. LEE of California, Mr. LEVIN, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
                                      SPEIER, and Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ) submitted the following resolu-
                                      tion; which was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce




                                                              RESOLUTION
                                      Expressing support for designation of February 28, 2013,
                                                       as Rare Disease Day.

                                  Whereas rare diseases and disorders are those which affect
                                     small patient populations, typically populations smaller
                                     than 200,000 people in the United States;
                                  Whereas nearly 7,000 rare diseases affect 30,000,000 people
                                     in the United States and their families;
                                  Whereas children with rare genetic diseases account for more
                                     than half of the population affected by rare diseases in
                                     the United States;





                                  Whereas many rare diseases are serious, life-threatening, and
                                     lack an effective treatment;



                                                                                             2
                                  Whereas rare diseases and conditions include epidermolysis
                                     bullosa, progeria, sickle cell anemia, Tay-Sachs, cystic fi-
                                     brosis, many childhood cancers, and fibrodysplasia
                                     ossificans progressiva;
                                  Whereas people with rare diseases experience challenges that
                                     include difficulty in obtaining an accurate diagnosis, lim-
                                     ited treatment options, and difficulty finding physicians
                                     or treatment centers with expertise in their disease;
                                  Whereas great strides have been made in research and treat-
                                     ment for rare diseases as a result of the Orphan Drug
                                     Act;
                                  Whereas 2013 marks the 30th anniversary of the Orphan
                                     Drug Act and therefore a time to reflect upon its suc-
                                     cesses to date and challenges to be addressed in the fu-
                                     ture;
                                  Whereas both the Food and Drug Administration and the
                                     National Institutes of Health have established special of-
                                     fices to advocate for rare disease research and treat-
                                     ments;
                                  Whereas the National Organization for Rare Disorders, an
                                     organization established in 1983 to provide services to,
                                     and advocate on behalf of, patients with rare diseases,
                                     was a primary force behind the enactment of the Orphan
                                     Drug Act and remains a critical public voice for people
                                     with rare diseases;
                                  Whereas the National Organization for Rare Disorders spon-
                                     sors Rare Disease Day in the United States to increase
                                     public awareness of rare diseases;
                                  Whereas Rare Disease Day has become a global event occur-





                                     ring annually on the last day of February and observed
                                     in more than 60 countries in 2012;
                                              •HRES 91 IH

                                                                                             3
                                  Whereas Rare Disease Day was observed in the United
                                     States for the first time on February 28, 2009;
                                  Whereas February 28, 2013, would be an appropriate date to
                                     designate as Rare Disease Day; and
                                  Whereas Rare Disease Day is anticipated to be observed glob-
                                     ally in years to come, providing hope and information for
                                     rare disease patients around the world: Now, therefore,
                                    1be it         Resolved, That the House of Representatives—
                                    2                        (1) supports the designation of Rare Disease
                                    3              Day;
                                    4                        (2) recognizes the importance of improving
                                    5              awareness and encouraging accurate and early diag-
                                    6              nosis of rare diseases and disorders; and
                                    7                        (3) supports a national and global commitment
                                    8              to improving access to, and developing new treat-
                                    9              ments, diagnostics, and cures for, rare diseases and
                                  10               disorders.
                                              •HRES 91 IH                                  Æ
