                                                                                                                                                                   IV




                                                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                                                     1ST SESSION                        H. CON. RES. 10
                                                                  Supporting the goals and ideals of No Name-Calling Week in bringing atten-
                                                                      tion to name-calling of all kinds and providing schools with the tools
                                                                      and inspiration to launch an on-going dialogue about ways to eliminate
                                                                      name-calling and bullying in their communities.




                                                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                                               JANUARY 25, 2013
                                                                  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. KIND, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
                                                                      MORAN, Ms. NORTON, Mr. SABLAN, Mr. POLIS, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
                                                                      POCAN, Ms. SINEMA, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr. HONDA) submitted the
                                                                      following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the Committee on
                                                                      Oversight and Government Reform




                                                                          CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
                                                                  Supporting the goals and ideals of No Name-Calling Week
                                                                     in bringing attention to name-calling of all kinds and
                                                                     providing schools with the tools and inspiration to launch
                                                                     an on-going dialogue about ways to eliminate name-call-
                                                                     ing and bullying in their communities.

                                                                  Whereas No Name-Calling Week is an annual week of edu-
                                                                     cational activities aimed at ending name-calling of all
                                                                     kinds and providing schools with the tools and inspiration
                                                                     to launch an on-going dialogue about ways to eliminate
srobinson on DSK4SPTVN1PROD with                                     name-calling and bullying in their communities;
                                                                  Whereas 60 organizations, including the National School
                                                                     Boards Association, National Association of Elementary


                                                                                                                             2
                                                                          School Principals, National Association of Secondary
                                                                          School Principals, National Education Association, Na-
                                                                          tional Association of School Psychologists, Gay, Lesbian
                                                                          and Straight Education Network, and Big Brothers Big
                                                                          Sisters of America, have come together as No Name-Call-
                                                                          ing Week partner organizations;
                                                                  Whereas thousands of students have participated in No
                                                                     Name-Calling Week since its inception in 2004;
                                                                  Whereas the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network
                                                                     has conducted and released national studies analyzing the
                                                                     pervasive harassment and victimization faced by elemen-
                                                                     tary students and lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender
                                                                     (LGBT) secondary students;
                                                                  Whereas 26 percent of elementary students reported hearing
                                                                     others say hurtful things based on another student’s race
                                                                     or ethnic background;
                                                                  Whereas 30 percent of elementary students reported being
                                                                     bullied or called names at some point while in school;
                                                                  Whereas over 70 percent of LGBT middle and high school
                                                                     students frequently hear homophobic remarks and over
                                                                     80 percent of LGBT middle and high school students
                                                                     were verbally harassed in the past year because of their
                                                                     sexual orientation; and
                                                                  Whereas 55 percent of LGBT middle and high school stu-
                                                                     dents experienced harassment via electronic means in the
                                                                     past year: Now, therefore, be it
                                                                    1               Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate
srobinson on DSK4SPTVN1PROD with                                    2 concurring), That Congress—
                                                                    3                        (1) supports the goals and ideals of No Name-
                                                                    4               Calling Week; and

                                                                               •HCON 10 IH

                                                                                                                             3
                                                                    1                        (2) encourages the people of the United States
                                                                    2               to observe No Name-Calling Week with appropriate
                                                                    3               ceremonies, programs, and activities.
                                                                                                                             Æ
srobinson on DSK4SPTVN1PROD with




                                                                               •HCON 10 IH

