                                                                                                                                   IV




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       H. CON. RES. 12
                                       Honoring and praising the National Association for the Advancement of
                                              Colored People on the occasion of its 104th anniversary.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                             FEBRUARY 12, 2013
                                  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas (for himself, Ms. BASS, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. BISHOP
                                      of Georgia, Ms. BROWN of Florida, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms. CLARKE,
                                      Mr. CLAY, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. CONYERS, Mr. CUMMINGS,
                                      Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. EDWARDS, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. HAS-
                                      TINGS of Florida, Mr. HINOJOSA, Mr. HONDA, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
                                      JEFFRIES, Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of
                                      Georgia, Ms. LEE of California, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MOORE,
                                      Ms. NORTON, Mr. PASTOR of Arizona, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. RANGEL, Mr.
                                      RICHMOND, Mr. RUSH, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
                                      ginia, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
                                      VEASEY, Ms. WATERS, Mr. WATT, Ms. WILSON of Florida, and Mr.
                                      BUTTERFIELD) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was
                                      referred to the Committee on the Judiciary




                                          CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
                                  Honoring and praising the National Association for the Ad-
                                     vancement of Colored People on the occasion of its 104th
                                     anniversary.

                                  Whereas the National Association for the Advancement of
                                     Colored People (NAACP), originally known as the Na-
                                     tional Negro Committee, was founded in New York City





                                     on February 12, 1909, the centennial of Abraham Lin-
                                     coln’s birth, by a multiracial group of activists who met


                                                                                             2
                                          in a national conference to discuss the civil and political
                                          rights of African-Americans;
                                  Whereas the NAACP was founded by a distinguished group
                                     of leaders in the struggle for civil and political liberty, in-
                                     cluding Ida Wells-Barnett, W.E.B. DuBois, Henry
                                     Moscowitz, Mary White Ovington, Oswald Garrison
                                     Villard, and William English Walling;
                                  Whereas the NAACP is the oldest and largest civil rights or-
                                     ganization in the United States;
                                  Whereas the NAACP National Headquarters is located in
                                     Baltimore, Maryland;
                                  Whereas the mission of the NAACP is to ensure the political,
                                     educational, social, and economic equality of rights of all
                                     persons and to eliminate racial hatred and racial dis-
                                     crimination;
                                  Whereas the NAACP is committed to achieving its goals
                                     through nonviolence;
                                  Whereas the NAACP advances its mission through reliance
                                     upon the press, the petition, the ballot, and the courts,
                                     and has been persistent in the use of legal and moral per-
                                     suasion, even in the face of overt and violent racial hos-
                                     tility;
                                  Whereas the NAACP has used political pressure, marches,
                                     demonstrations, and effective lobbying to serve as the
                                     voice, as well as the shield, for minorities in the United
                                     States;
                                  Whereas after years of fighting segregation in public schools,
                                     the NAACP, under the leadership of Special Counsel





                                     Thurgood Marshall, won one of its greatest legal victories
                                     in the Supreme Court’s decision in Brown v. Board of
                                     Education, 347 U.S. 483 (1954);
                                              •HCON 12 IH

                                                                                             3
                                  Whereas in 1955, NAACP member Rosa Parks was arrested
                                     and fined for refusing to give up her seat on a segregated
                                     bus in Montgomery, Alabama, an act of courage that
                                     would serve as the catalyst for the largest grassroots civil
                                     rights movement in the history of the United States;
                                  Whereas the NAACP was prominent in lobbying for the pas-
                                     sage of the Civil Rights Acts of 1957, 1960, and 1964,
                                     the Voting Rights Act of 1965, the Fannie Lou Hamer,
                                                                        ´         ´
                                     Rosa Parks, Coretta Scott King, Cesar E. Chavez, Bar-
                                                                   ´
                                     bara C. Jordan, William C. Velasquez, and Dr. Hector P.
                                     Garcia Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amend-
                                     ments Act of 2006, and the Fair Housing Act, laws that
                                     ensured Government protection for legal victories
                                     achieved;
                                  Whereas in 2005, the NAACP launched the Disaster Relief
                                     Fund to help hurricane survivors in Louisiana, Mis-
                                     sissippi, Texas, Florida, and Alabama to rebuild their
                                     lives;
                                  Whereas in the 110th Congress, the NAACP was prominent
                                     in lobbying for the passage of H. Res. 826, whose re-
                                     solved clause expresses that the hanging of nooses is a
                                     horrible act when used for the purpose of intimidation
                                     and which under certain circumstances can be criminal,
                                     this conduct should be investigated thoroughly by Federal
                                     authorities, and any criminal violations should be vigor-
                                     ously prosecuted;
                                  Whereas in 2008, the NAACP vigorously supported the pas-
                                     sage of the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act
                                     of 2007, a law that puts additional Federal resources





                                     into solving the heinous crimes that occurred in the early
                                     days of the civil rights struggle that remain unsolved and
                                     bringing those who perpetrated such crimes to justice;
                                              •HCON 12 IH

                                                                                             4
                                  Whereas the NAACP has helped usher in the new millennium
                                     by charting a bold course, beginning with the appoint-
                                     ment of the organization’s youngest President and Chief
                                     Executive Officer, Benjamin Todd Jealous, and its
                                     youngest female Board Chair, Roslyn M. Brock;
                                  Whereas under their leadership, the NAACP has outlined a
                                     strategic plan to confront 21st century challenges in the
                                     critical areas of health, education, housing, criminal jus-
                                     tice, and environment;
                                  Whereas, on July 16, 2009, the NAACP celebrated its cen-
                                     tennial anniversary in New York City, highlighting an ex-
                                     traordinary century of Bold Dreams, Big Victories with
                                     a historic address from the first African-American Presi-
                                     dent of the United States, Barack Obama;
                                  Whereas as an advocate for sentencing reform, the NAACP
                                     applauded the passage of the Fair Sentencing Act of
                                     2010 (Public Law 111–220; 124 Stat. 2372), a landmark
                                     piece of legislation that reduces the quantity of crack co-
                                     caine that triggers a mandatory minimum sentence for a
                                     Federal conviction of crack cocaine distribution from 100
                                     times that of people convicted of distributing the drug in
                                     powdered form to 18 times that sentence; and
                                  Whereas in 2011, the NAACP led the charge to defend the
                                     constitutional right to vote and to protect that right for
                                     all citizens of the United States, whether they be seniors,
                                     young voters, the poor, or from minority communities:
                                     Now, therefore, be it
                                    1              Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate
                                    2 concurring), That Congress—





                                              •HCON 12 IH

                                                                                             5
                                    1                        (1) recognizes the 104th anniversary of the his-
                                    2              toric founding of the National Association for the
                                    3              Advancement of Colored People; and
                                    4                        (2) honors and praises the National Association
                                    5              for the Advancement of Colored People on the occa-
                                    6              sion of its anniversary for its work to ensure the po-
                                    7              litical, educational, social, and economic equality of
                                    8              all persons.
                                              •HCON 12 IH                                  Æ
