                                                                                                                                   IV




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       H. CON. RES. 27
                                     Supporting the formation of a bipartisan Presidential Commission to study
                                         the establishment of a National Museum of the American People.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                MARCH 19, 2013
                                  Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALO-
                                      NEY of New York, Mr. RANGEL, Mr. WOLF, Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms. NOR-
                                      TON, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. WALZ, Mr. BISHOP of
                                      New York, Mr. COLE, and Mr. GERLACH) submitted the following con-
                                      current resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Natural Re-
                                      sources




                                          CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
                                  Supporting the formation of a bipartisan Presidential Com-
                                     mission to study the establishment of a National Museum
                                     of the American People.

                                  Whereas the United States was created and built by peoples
                                     from every land, and these people made this Nation the
                                     world’s economic, military, scientific, and cultural leader;
                                  Whereas Canada and Mexico, the nations bordering the
                                     United States, have major museums in or near their cap-
                                     ital cities telling the story of the making of their peoples;
                                  Whereas the people of the United States do not have a com-





                                     prehensive and accurate picture of all the peoples who
                                     created and continue to build the Nation;


                                                                                             2
                                  Whereas few foreigners know the story of the peoples who
                                     came to be citizens of the United States, nor the story
                                     of the people from their own nations who came to this
                                     land;
                                  Whereas a museum telling the story of the making of the
                                     people of the United States and celebrating all who mi-
                                     grated and settled in the present day United States, from
                                     the very first to the most recent, belongs near the Na-
                                     tional Mall in Washington, DC;
                                  Whereas the National Museum of the American People would
                                     serve as a resource to assist State, local, and ethnic mu-
                                     seums throughout the Nation present exhibits that cele-
                                     brate the heritage of the people of the United States;
                                  Whereas non-Federal sources will be sought to provide full
                                     funding for a Presidential Commission to study establish-
                                     ment of the Museum and that such sums will commence
                                     when the President signs an Executive order creating a
                                     bipartisan Presidential Commission; and
                                  Whereas non-Federal sources are anticipated to provide full
                                     funding to design and build the Museum, its exhibitions
                                     and its components: Now, therefore, be it
                                    1              Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate
                                    2 concurring), That Congress supports the establishment of
                                    3 a bipartisan Presidential Commission to study the estab-
                                    4 lishment of a National Museum of the American People
                                    5 to tell the immigration and migration stories of all people
                                    6 in the United States.





                                                                                             Æ



                                              •HCON 27 IH

