                                                                                                                                                              IV




                                                               113TH CONGRESS
                                                                  1ST SESSION                        H. CON. RES. 8
                                                                Expressing the opposition of Congress to Federal efforts to establish a carbon
                                                                               tax on fuels for electricity and transportation.




                                                                             IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                                          JANUARY 15, 2013
                                                               Mr. MCKINLEY (for himself, Mr. POMPEO, Mr. UPTON, Mr. BARTON, Mr.
                                                                   WHITFIELD, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. RAHALL, Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky, Mr.
                                                                   TERRY, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, and Mrs. CAPITO) sub-
                                                                   mitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
                                                                   Committee on Ways and Means




                                                                       CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
                                                               Expressing the opposition of Congress to Federal efforts
                                                                  to establish a carbon tax on fuels for electricity and
                                                                  transportation.

                                                               Whereas affordable and abundant electricity from coal and
                                                                  natural gas is a strategic resource that is essential to
                                                                  modern life, America’s economic competitiveness, and, ul-
                                                                  timately, independence from foreign and volatile sources
                                                                  of energy;
                                                               Whereas the application of a carbon tax to gasoline and other
                                                                  transportation fuels will have a dramatic, immediate im-
                                                                  pact on transportation costs, with the greatest impact
tjames on DSK6SPTVN1PROD with                                     being felt by low-income Americans and their families;
                                                                                                                          2
                                                               Whereas a carbon tax is designed to result in substantial, im-
                                                                  mediate increases in the price of electricity, making elec-
                                                                  tricity less affordable for millions of Americans;
                                                               Whereas a carbon tax applicable to coal and natural gas elec-
                                                                  tricity generation would be punitive and harmful to the
                                                                  American people by artificially raising electricity costs;
                                                               Whereas, with continuing high national joblessness and an
                                                                  unemployment rate exceeding 7.8 percent every month
                                                                  since February 2009, a carbon tax will drive the unem-
                                                                  ployment rate even higher;
                                                               Whereas a carbon tax is likely to have an uneven effect, hit-
                                                                  ting different regions of the country and segments of the
                                                                  economy much more severely than others;
                                                               Whereas a carbon tax is regressive and will impose the great-
                                                                  est burden on low-income individuals and families who al-
                                                                  ready spend the largest share of their income on energy
                                                                  and are least able to afford a carbon tax;
                                                               Whereas economic modeling of Australia’s recently imple-
                                                                  mented carbon tax shows that it increases energy costs,
                                                                  and reduces growth in GDP, productivity, and household
                                                                  incomes;
                                                               Whereas a carbon tax in the United States will have no im-
                                                                  pact on China, India, and other major sources of carbon
                                                                  emissions throughout the world, except to increase their
                                                                  competitiveness with the United States; and
                                                               Whereas a carbon tax will put United States exporters at a
                                                                  competitive disadvantage by increasing domestic manu-
                                                                  facturing production costs: Now, therefore, be it
tjames on DSK6SPTVN1PROD with                                    1               Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate
                                                                 2 concurring), That Congress opposes Federal efforts to es-

                                                                            •HCON 8 IH

                                                                                                                          3
                                                                 1 tablish a carbon tax on fuels for electricity and transpor-
                                                                 2 tation.
                                                                                                                          Æ
tjames on DSK6SPTVN1PROD with




                                                                            •HCON 8 IH

