                                                                                                                                   I




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                          H. R. 643
                                  To provide that no Federal or State requirement to increase energy efficient
                                      lighting in public buildings shall require a hospital, school, day care
                                      center, mental health facility, or nursing home to install or utilize such
                                      energy efficient lighting if the lighting contains mercury.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                FEBRUARY 13, 2013
                                  Mr. BURGESS introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Com-
                                      mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on
                                      Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently deter-
                                      mined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions
                                      as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned




                                                                            A BILL
                                  To provide that no Federal or State requirement to increase
                                     energy efficient lighting in public buildings shall require
                                     a hospital, school, day care center, mental health facility,
                                     or nursing home to install or utilize such energy efficient
                                     lighting if the lighting contains mercury.
                                    1              Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
                                    2 tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
                                    3     SECTION 1. MERCURY-CONTAINING LIGHTING.

                                    4              (a) AMENDMENT.—Title III of the Energy Independ-




                                    5 ence and Security Act of 2007 is amended by adding at
                                    6 the end the following new section:

                                    1     ‘‘SEC. 326. MERCURY-CONTAINING LIGHTING.       2
                                    2              ‘‘Notwithstanding sections 321 through 325, and the
                                    3 amendments made by those sections, no Federal or State
                                    4 requirement to increase energy efficient lighting in public
                                    5 buildings shall require a hospital, school, day care center,
                                    6 mental health facility, or nursing home to install or utilize
                                    7 such energy efficient lighting if the lighting contains mer-
                                    8 cury.’’.
                                    9              (b) TABLE             OF       CONTENTS AMENDMENT.—The table
                                  10 of contents for the Energy Independence and Security Act
                                  11 of 2007 is amended by adding at the end of the items
                                  12 relating to title III the following new item:
                                          ‘‘Sec. 326. Mercury-containing lighting.’’.

                                              •HR 643 IH                                   Æ
