                                                                                                                                   II




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                            S. 300
                                  To prohibit the implementation of any program that grants temporary legal
                                      status to, or adjusts the status of, any individual who is unlawfully
                                      present in the United States until the Secretary of Homeland Security
                                      certifies that the US–VISIT system has been fully implemented at every
                                      land, sea, and air port of entry.




                                              IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                              FEBRUARY 13, 2013
                                  Mr. VITTER (for himself, Mr. SESSIONS, and Mr. LEE) introduced the fol-
                                      lowing bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on the
                                      Judiciary




                                                                            A BILL
                                  To prohibit the implementation of any program that grants
                                     temporary legal status to, or adjusts the status of, any
                                     individual who is unlawfully present in the United States
                                     until the Secretary of Homeland Security certifies that
                                     the US–VISIT system has been fully implemented at
                                     every land, sea, and air port of entry.
                                    1              Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
                                    2 tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
                                    3     SECTION 1. US–VISIT SYSTEM.
                                    4              Any program that authorizes granting temporary
                                    5 legal status to individuals who are unlawfully present in



                                                                                             2
                                    1 the United States or adjusting the status of such individ-
                                    2 uals to that of aliens lawfully admitted for permanent resi-
                                    3 dence may not be implemented until the Secretary of
                                    4 Homeland Security certifies in writing to the President
                                    5 and Congress that the integrated entry and exit data sys-
                                    6 tem required under section 110 of the Illegal Immigration
                                    7 Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (8
                                    8 U.S.C. 1365a), which was required to be implemented by
                                    9 December 21, 2005, has been fully implemented and is
                                  10 functioning at every land, sea, and air port of entry.
                                              •S 300 IS                                    Æ
