S. 47



               One Hundred Thirteenth Congress
                           of the
                  United States of America
                                 AT T H E F I R S T S E S S I O N

                    Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday,
                     the third day of January, two thousand and thirteen




                                               An Act
                          To reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act of 1994.

            Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
        the United States of America in Congress assembled,
        SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
           This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Violence Against Women
        Reauthorization Act of 2013’’.
        SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
               The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
        Sec.   1.   Short title.
        Sec.   2.   Table of contents.
        Sec.   3.   Universal definitions and grant conditions.
        Sec.   4.   Effective date.
           TITLE I—ENHANCING JUDICIAL AND LAW ENFORCEMENT TOOLS TO
                       COMBAT VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
        Sec.   101.   Stop grants.
        Sec.   102.   Grants to encourage arrest policies and enforcement of protection orders.
        Sec.   103.   Legal assistance for victims.
        Sec.   104.   Consolidation of grants to support families in the justice system.
        Sec.   105.   Sex offender management.
        Sec.   106.   Court-appointed special advocate program.
        Sec.   107.   Criminal provision relating to stalking, including cyberstalking.
        Sec.   108.   Outreach and services to underserved populations grant.
        Sec.   109.   Culturally specific services grant.
         TITLE II—IMPROVING SERVICES FOR VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE,
                 DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND STALKING
        Sec. 201. Sexual assault services program.
        Sec. 202. Rural domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, and
                   child abuse enforcement assistance.
        Sec. 203. Training and services to end violence against women with disabilities
                   grants.
        Sec. 204. Enhanced training and services to end abuse in later life.
        TITLE III—SERVICES, PROTECTION, AND JUSTICE FOR YOUNG VICTIMS OF
                                    VIOLENCE
        Sec. 301. Rape prevention and education grant.
        Sec. 302. Creating hope through outreach, options, services, and education for chil-
                   dren and youth.
        Sec. 303. Grants to combat violent crimes on campuses.
        Sec. 304. Campus sexual violence, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking
                   education and prevention.
                            TITLE IV—VIOLENCE REDUCTION PRACTICES
        Sec. 401. Study conducted by the centers for disease control and prevention.
                                        S. 47—2
Sec. 402. Saving money and reducing tragedies through prevention grants.
TITLE V—STRENGTHENING THE HEALTHCARE SYSTEM’S RESPONSE TO
  DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND
  STALKING
Sec. 501. Consolidation of grants to strengthen the healthcare system’s response to
           domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
 TITLE VI—SAFE HOMES FOR VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING
               VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND STALKING
Sec. 601. Housing protections for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sex-
           ual assault, and stalking.
Sec. 602. Transitional housing assistance grants for victims of domestic violence,
           dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
Sec. 603. Addressing the housing needs of victims of domestic violence, dating vio-
           lence, sexual assault, and stalking.
       TITLE VII—ECONOMIC SECURITY FOR VICTIMS OF VIOLENCE
Sec. 701. National Resource Center on Workplace Responses to assist victims of do-
           mestic and sexual violence.
           TITLE VIII—PROTECTION OF BATTERED IMMIGRANTS
Sec.   801.
          U nonimmigrant definition.
Sec.   802.
          Annual report on immigration applications made by victims of abuse.
Sec.   803.
          Protection for children of VAWA self-petitioners.
Sec.   804.
          Public charge.
Sec.   805.
          Requirements applicable to U visas.
Sec.   806.
          Hardship waivers.
Sec.   807.                      ´          ´
          Protections for a fiancee or fiance of a citizen.
Sec.   808.
          Regulation of international marriage brokers.
Sec.   809.
          Eligibility of crime and trafficking victims in the Commonwealth of the
           Northern Mariana Islands to adjust status.
Sec. 810. Disclosure of information for national security purposes.
                    TITLE IX—SAFETY FOR INDIAN WOMEN
Sec.   901.
          Grants to Indian tribal governments.
Sec.   902.
          Grants to Indian tribal coalitions.
Sec.   903.
          Consultation.
Sec.   904.
          Tribal jurisdiction over crimes of domestic violence.
Sec.   905.
          Tribal protection orders.
Sec.   906.
          Amendments to the Federal assault statute.
Sec.   907.
          Analysis and research on violence against Indian women.
Sec.   908.
          Effective dates; pilot project.
Sec.   909.
          Indian law and order commission; Report on the Alaska Rural Justice and
            Law Enforcement Commission.
Sec. 910. Special rule for the State of Alaska.
                                 TITLE X—SAFER ACT
Sec.   1001.   Short title.
Sec.   1002.   Debbie Smith grants for auditing sexual assault evidence backlogs.
Sec.   1003.   Reports to Congress.
Sec.   1004.   Reducing the rape kit backlog.
Sec.   1005.   Oversight and accountability.
Sec.   1006.   Sunset.
                              TITLE XI—OTHER MATTERS
Sec.   1101.   Sexual abuse in custodial settings.
Sec.   1102.   Anonymous online harassment.
Sec.   1103.   Stalker database.
Sec.   1104.   Federal victim assistants reauthorization.
Sec.   1105.   Child abuse training programs for judicial personnel and practitioners
               reauthorization.
                  TITLE XII—TRAFFICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION
            Subtitle A—Combating International Trafficking in Persons
Sec. 1201. Regional strategies for combating trafficking in persons.
Sec. 1202. Partnerships against significant trafficking in persons.
Sec. 1203. Protection and assistance for victims of trafficking.
                                         S. 47—3
Sec.   1204.   Minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking.
Sec.   1205.   Best practices in trafficking in persons eradication.
Sec.   1206.   Protections for domestic workers and other nonimmigrants.
Sec.   1207.   Prevention of child marriage.
Sec.   1208.   Child soldiers.
          Subtitle B—Combating Trafficking in Persons in the United States
          PART I—PENALTIES AGAINST TRAFFICKERS          AND   OTHER CRIMES
Sec. 1211. Criminal trafficking offenses.
Sec. 1212. Civil remedies; clarifying definition.
    PART II—ENSURING AVAILABILITY OF POSSIBLE WITNESSES AND INFORMANTS
Sec. 1221. Protections for trafficking victims who cooperate with law enforcement.
Sec. 1222. Protection against fraud in foreign labor contracting.
   PART III—ENSURING INTERAGENCY COORDINATION AND EXPANDED REPORTING
Sec. 1231. Reporting requirements for the Attorney General.
Sec. 1232. Reporting requirements for the Secretary of Labor.
Sec. 1233. Information sharing to combat child labor and slave labor.
Sec. 1234. Government training efforts to include the Department of Labor.
Sec. 1235. GAO report on the use of foreign labor contractors.
Sec. 1236. Accountability.
  PART IV—ENHANCING STATE        ANDLOCAL EFFORTS TO COMBAT TRAFFICKING IN
                                     PERSONS
Sec. 1241. Assistance for domestic minor sex trafficking victims.
Sec. 1242. Expanding local law enforcement grants for investigations and prosecu-
           tions of trafficking.
Sec. 1243. Model State criminal law protection for child trafficking victims and sur-
           vivors.  Subtitle C—Authorization of Appropriations
Sec. 1251. Adjustment of authorization levels for the Trafficking Victims Protection
           Act of 2000.
Sec. 1252. Adjustment of authorization levels for the Trafficking Victims Protection
           Reauthorization Act of 2005.
                    Subtitle D—Unaccompanied Alien Children
Sec. 1261. Appropriate custodial settings for unaccompanied minors who reach the
           age of majority while in Federal custody.
Sec. 1262. Appointment of child advocates for unaccompanied minors.
Sec. 1263. Access to Federal foster care and unaccompanied refugee minor protec-
           tions for certain U Visa recipients.
Sec. 1264. GAO study of the effectiveness of border screenings.
SEC. 3. UNIVERSAL DEFINITIONS AND GRANT CONDITIONS.
    (a) DEFINITIONS.—Subsection (a) of section 40002 of the
Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13925(a)) is
amended—
         (1) by striking paragraphs (5), (17), (18), (23), (29), (33),
    (36), and (37);
         (2) by redesignating—
              (A) paragraphs (34) and (35) as paragraphs (41) and
         (42), respectively;
              (B) paragraphs (30), (31), and (32) as paragraphs (36),
         (37), and (38), respectively;
              (C) paragraphs (24) through (28) as paragraphs (30)
         through (34), respectively;
              (D) paragraphs (21) and (22) as paragraphs (26) and
         (27), respectively;
              (E) paragraphs (19) and (20) as paragraphs (23) and
         (24), respectively;
              (F) paragraphs (10) through (16) as paragraphs (13)
         through (19), respectively;
                           S. 47—4

           (G) paragraphs (6), (7), (8), and (9) as paragraphs
     (8), (9), (10), and (11), respectively; and
           (H) paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) as paragraphs
     (2), (3), (4), and (5), respectively;
     (3) by inserting before paragraph (2), as redesignated, the
following:
     ‘‘(1) ALASKA NATIVE VILLAGE.—The term ‘Alaska Native
village’ has the same meaning given such term in the Alaska
Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).’’;
     (4) in paragraph (3), as redesignated, by striking ‘‘serious
harm.’’ and inserting ‘‘serious harm to an unemancipated
minor.’’;
     (5) in paragraph (4), as redesignated, by striking ‘‘The
term’’ through ‘‘that—’’ and inserting ‘‘The term ‘community-
based organization’ means a nonprofit, nongovernmental, or
tribal organization that serves a specific geographic community
that—’’;
     (6) by inserting after paragraph (5), as redesignated, the
following:
     ‘‘(6) CULTURALLY SPECIFIC.—The term ‘culturally specific’
means primarily directed toward racial and ethnic minority
groups (as defined in section 1707(g) of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300u–6(g)).
     ‘‘(7) CULTURALLY SPECIFIC SERVICES.—The term ‘culturally
specific services’ means community-based services that include
culturally relevant and linguistically specific services and
resources to culturally specific communities.’’;
     (7) in paragraph (8), as redesignated, by inserting ‘‘or
intimate partner’’ after ‘‘former spouse’’ and ‘‘as a spouse’’;
     (8) by inserting after paragraph (11), as redesignated, the
following:
     ‘‘(12) HOMELESS.—The term ‘homeless’ has the meaning
provided in section 41403(6).’’;
     (9) in paragraph (18), as redesignated, by inserting ‘‘or
Village Public Safety Officers’’ after ‘‘governmental victim serv-
ices programs’’;
     (10) in paragraph (19), as redesignated, by inserting at
the end the following:
‘‘Intake or referral, by itself, does not constitute legal assist-
ance.’’;
     (11) by inserting after paragraph (19), as redesignated,
the following:
     ‘‘(20) PERSONALLY IDENTIFYING INFORMATION OR PERSONAL
INFORMATION.—The term ‘personally identifying information’
or ‘personal information’ means individually identifying
information for or about an individual including information
likely to disclose the location of a victim of domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, regardless of
whether the information is encoded, encrypted, hashed, or
otherwise protected, including—
           ‘‘(A) a first and last name;
           ‘‘(B) a home or other physical address;
           ‘‘(C) contact information (including a postal, e-mail or
     Internet protocol address, or telephone or facsimile
     number);
           ‘‘(D) a social security number, driver license number,
     passport number, or student identification number; and
                          S. 47—5

          ‘‘(E) any other information, including date of birth,
     racial or ethnic background, or religious affiliation, that
     would serve to identify any individual.
     ‘‘(21) POPULATION SPECIFIC ORGANIZATION.—The term
‘population specific organization’ means a nonprofit, nongovern-
mental organization that primarily serves members of a specific
underserved population and has demonstrated experience and
expertise providing targeted services to members of that specific
underserved population.
     ‘‘(22) POPULATION SPECIFIC SERVICES.—The term ‘popu-
lation specific services’ means victim-centered services that
address the safety, health, economic, legal, housing, workplace,
immigration, confidentiality, or other needs of victims of
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking,
and that are designed primarily for and are targeted to a
specific underserved population.’’;
     (12) in paragraph (23), as redesignated, by striking ‘‘serv-
ices’’ and inserting ‘‘assistance’’;
     (13) by inserting after paragraph (24), as redesignated,
the following:
     ‘‘(25) RAPE CRISIS CENTER.—The term ‘rape crisis center’
means a nonprofit, nongovernmental, or tribal organization,
or governmental entity in a State other than a Territory that
provides intervention and related assistance, as specified in
section 41601(b)(2)(C), to victims of sexual assault without
regard to their age. In the case of a governmental entity,
the entity may not be part of the criminal justice system
(such as a law enforcement agency) and must be able to offer
a comparable level of confidentiality as a nonprofit entity that
provides similar victim services.’’;
     (14) in paragraph (26), as redesignated—
          (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘or’’ after the
     semicolon;
          (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period and
     inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
          (C) by inserting at the end the following:
          ‘‘(C) any federally recognized Indian tribe.’’;
     (15) in paragraph (27), as redesignated—
          (A) by striking ‘‘52’’ and inserting ‘‘57’’; and
          (B) by striking ‘‘150,000’’ and inserting ‘‘250,000’’;
     (16) by inserting after paragraph (27), as redesignated,
the following:
     ‘‘(28) SEX TRAFFICKING.—The term ‘sex trafficking’ means
any conduct proscribed by section 1591 of title 18, United
States Code, whether or not the conduct occurs in interstate
or foreign commerce or within the special maritime and terri-
torial jurisdiction of the United States.
     ‘‘(29) SEXUAL ASSAULT.—The term ‘sexual assault’ means
any nonconsensual sexual act proscribed by Federal, tribal,
or State law, including when the victim lacks capacity to con-
sent.’’;
     (17) by inserting after paragraph (34), as redesignated,
the following:
     ‘‘(35) TRIBAL COALITION.—The term ‘tribal coalition’ means
an established nonprofit, nongovernmental Indian organization,
Alaska Native organization, or a Native Hawaiian organization
that—
                               S. 47—6

               ‘‘(A) provides education, support, and technical assist-
         ance to member Indian service providers in a manner that
         enables those member providers to establish and maintain
         culturally appropriate services, including shelter and rape
         crisis services, designed to assist Indian women and the
         dependents of those women who are victims of domestic
         violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; and
               ‘‘(B) is comprised of board and general members that
         are representative of—
                    ‘‘(i) the member service providers described in
               subparagraph (A); and
                    ‘‘(ii) the tribal communities in which the services
               are being provided.’’;
         (18) by inserting after paragraph (38), as redesignated,
    the following:
         ‘‘(39) UNDERSERVED POPULATIONS.—The term ‘underserved
    populations’ means populations who face barriers in accessing
    and using victim services, and includes populations underserved
    because of geographic location, religion, sexual orientation,
    gender identity, underserved racial and ethnic populations,
    populations underserved because of special needs (such as lan-
    guage barriers, disabilities, alienage status, or age), and any
    other population determined to be underserved by the Attorney
    General or by the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
    as appropriate.
         ‘‘(40) UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT.—The term ‘unit of local
    government’ means any city, county, township, town, borough,
    parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision
    of a State.’’; and
         (19) by inserting after paragraph (42), as redesignated,
    the following:
         ‘‘(43) VICTIM SERVICE PROVIDER.—The term ‘victim service
    provider’ means a nonprofit, nongovernmental or tribal
    organization or rape crisis center, including a State or tribal
    coalition, that assists or advocates for domestic violence, dating
    violence, sexual assault, or stalking victims, including domestic
    violence shelters, faith-based organizations, and other organiza-
    tions, with a documented history of effective work concerning
    domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
         ‘‘(44) VICTIM SERVICES OR SERVICES.—The terms ‘victim
    services’ and ‘services’ mean services provided to victims of
    domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking,
    including telephonic or web-based hotlines, legal advocacy, eco-
    nomic advocacy, emergency and transitional shelter, accompani-
    ment and advocacy through medical, civil or criminal justice,
    immigration, and social support systems, crisis intervention,
    short-term individual and group support services, information
    and referrals, culturally specific services, population specific
    services, and other related supportive services.
         ‘‘(45) YOUTH.—The term ‘youth’ means a person who is
    11 to 24 years old.’’.
    (b) GRANTS CONDITIONS.—Subsection (b) of section 40002 of
the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13925(b))
is amended—
         (1) in paragraph (2)—
               (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking clauses (i) and
         (ii) and inserting the following:
                        S. 47—7

           ‘‘(i) disclose, reveal, or release any personally
     identifying information or individual information col-
     lected in connection with services requested, utilized,
     or denied through grantees’ and subgrantees’ pro-
     grams, regardless of whether the information has been
     encoded, encrypted, hashed, or otherwise protected; or
           ‘‘(ii) disclose, reveal, or release individual client
     information without the informed, written, reasonably
     time-limited consent of the person (or in the case of
     an unemancipated minor, the minor and the parent
     or guardian or in the case of legal incapacity, a court-
     appointed guardian) about whom information is sought,
     whether for this program or any other Federal, State,
     tribal, or territorial grant program, except that consent
     for release may not be given by the abuser of the
     minor, incapacitated person, or the abuser of the other
     parent of the minor.
If a minor or a person with a legally appointed guardian
is permitted by law to receive services without the parent’s
or guardian’s consent, the minor or person with a guardian
may release information without additional consent.’’;
     (B) by amending subparagraph (D), to read as follows:
     ‘‘(D) INFORMATION SHARING.—
           ‘‘(i) Grantees and subgrantees may share—
                  ‘‘(I) nonpersonally identifying data in the
           aggregate regarding services to their clients and
           nonpersonally identifying demographic information
           in order to comply with Federal, State, tribal, or
           territorial reporting, evaluation, or data collection
           requirements;
                  ‘‘(II) court-generated information and law
           enforcement-generated information contained in
           secure, governmental registries for protection order
           enforcement purposes; and
                  ‘‘(III) law enforcement-generated and prosecu-
           tion-generated information necessary for law
           enforcement and prosecution purposes.
           ‘‘(ii) In no circumstances may—
                  ‘‘(I) an adult, youth, or child victim of domestic
           violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
           stalking be required to provide a consent to release
           his or her personally identifying information as
           a condition of eligibility for the services provided
           by the grantee or subgrantee;
                  ‘‘(II) any personally identifying information be
           shared in order to comply with Federal, tribal,
           or State reporting, evaluation, or data collection
           requirements, whether for this program or any
           other Federal, tribal, or State grant program.’’;
     (C) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subpara-
graph (F);
     (D) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following:
     ‘‘(E) STATUTORILY MANDATED REPORTS OF ABUSE OR
NEGLECT.—Nothing in this section prohibits a grantee or
subgrantee from reporting suspected abuse or neglect, as
those terms are defined and specifically mandated by the
State or tribe involved.’’; and
                           S. 47—8

           (E) by inserting after subparagraph (F), as redesig-
     nated, the following:
           ‘‘(G) CONFIDENTIALITY ASSESSMENT AND ASSURANCES.—
     Grantees and subgrantees must document their compliance
     with the confidentiality and privacy provisions required
     under this section.’’;
     (2) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
     ‘‘(3) APPROVED ACTIVITIES.—In carrying out the activities
under this title, grantees and subgrantees may collaborate with
or provide information to Federal, State, local, tribal, and terri-
torial public officials and agencies to develop and implement
policies and develop and promote State, local, or tribal legisla-
tion or model codes designed to reduce or eliminate domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.’’;
     (3) in paragraph (7), by inserting at the end the following:
‘‘Final reports of such evaluations shall be made available
to the public via the agency’s website.’’; and
     (4) by inserting after paragraph (11) the following:
     ‘‘(12) DELIVERY OF LEGAL ASSISTANCE.—Any grantee or sub-
grantee providing legal assistance with funds awarded under
this title shall comply with the eligibility requirements in sec-
tion 1201(d) of the Violence Against Women Act of 2000 (42
U.S.C. 3796gg–6(d)).
     ‘‘(13) CIVIL RIGHTS.—
           ‘‘(A) NONDISCRIMINATION.—No person in the United
     States shall, on the basis of actual or perceived race, color,
     religion, national origin, sex, gender identity (as defined
     in paragraph 249(c)(4) of title 18, United States Code),
     sexual orientation, or disability, be excluded from participa-
     tion in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimi-
     nation under any program or activity funded in whole
     or in part with funds made available under the Violence
     Against Women Act of 1994 (title IV of Public Law 103–
     322; 108 Stat. 1902), the Violence Against Women Act
     of 2000 (division B of Public Law 106–386; 114 Stat. 1491),
     the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice
     Reauthorization Act of 2005 (title IX of Public Law 109–
     162; 119 Stat. 3080), the Violence Against Women
     Reauthorization Act of 2013, and any other program or
     activity funded in whole or in part with funds appropriated
     for grants, cooperative agreements, and other assistance
     administered by the Office on Violence Against Women.
           ‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—If sex segregation or sex-specific
     programming is necessary to the essential operation of
     a program, nothing in this paragraph shall prevent any
     such program or activity from consideration of an individ-
     ual’s sex. In such circumstances, grantees may meet the
     requirements of this paragraph by providing comparable
     services to individuals who cannot be provided with the
     sex-segregated or sex-specific programming.
           ‘‘(C) DISCRIMINATION.—The authority of the Attorney
     General and the Office of Justice Programs to enforce this
     paragraph shall be the same as it is under section 3789d
     of title 42, United States Code.
                           S. 47—9

          ‘‘(D) CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing contained in this para-
     graph shall be construed, interpreted, or applied to sup-
     plant, displace, preempt, or otherwise diminish the respon-
     sibilities and liabilities under other State or Federal civil
     rights law, whether statutory or common.
     ‘‘(14) CLARIFICATION OF VICTIM SERVICES AND LEGAL ASSIST-
ANCE.—Victim services and legal assistance under this title
also include services and assistance to victims of domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking who are
also victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons as defined
by section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of
2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).
     ‘‘(15) CONFERRAL.—
          ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Office on Violence Against
     Women shall establish a biennial conferral process with
     State and tribal coalitions and technical assistance pro-
     viders who receive funding through grants administered
     by the Office on Violence Against Women and authorized
     by this Act, and other key stakeholders.
          ‘‘(B) AREAS COVERED.—The areas of conferral under
     this paragraph shall include—
                ‘‘(i) the administration of grants;
                ‘‘(ii) unmet needs;
                ‘‘(iii) promising practices in the field; and
                ‘‘(iv) emerging trends.
          ‘‘(C) INITIAL CONFERRAL.—The first conferral shall be
     initiated not later than 6 months after the date of enact-
     ment of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act
     of 2013.
          ‘‘(D) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after the conclu-
     sion of each conferral period, the Office on Violence Against
     Women shall publish a comprehensive report that—
                ‘‘(i) summarizes the issues presented during con-
          ferral and what, if any, policies it intends to implement
          to address those issues;
                ‘‘(ii) is made available to the public on the Office
          on Violence Against Women’s website and submitted
          to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and
          the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Rep-
          resentatives.
     ‘‘(16) ACCOUNTABILITY.—All grants awarded by the
Attorney General under this Act shall be subject to the following
accountability provisions:
          ‘‘(A) AUDIT REQUIREMENT.—
                ‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Beginning in the first fiscal year
          beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act,
          and in each fiscal year thereafter, the Inspector Gen-
          eral of the Department of Justice shall conduct audits
          of recipients of grants under this Act to prevent waste,
          fraud, and abuse of funds by grantees. The Inspector
          General shall determine the appropriate number of
          grantees to be audited each year.
                ‘‘(ii) DEFINITION.—In this paragraph, the term
          ‘unresolved audit finding’ means a finding in the final
          audit report of the Inspector General of the Depart-
          ment of Justice that the audited grantee has utilized
                  S. 47—10

grant funds for an unauthorized expenditure or other-
wise unallowable cost that is not closed or resolved
within 12 months from the date when the final audit
report is issued.
      ‘‘(iii) MANDATORY EXCLUSION.—A recipient of grant
funds under this Act that is found to have an unre-
solved audit finding shall not be eligible to receive
grant funds under this Act during the following 2
fiscal years.
      ‘‘(iv) PRIORITY.—In awarding grants under this Act,
the Attorney General shall give priority to eligible
entities that did not have an unresolved audit finding
during the 3 fiscal years prior to submitting an applica-
tion for a grant under this Act.
      ‘‘(v) REIMBURSEMENT.—If an entity is awarded
grant funds under this Act during the 2-fiscal-year
period in which the entity is barred from receiving
grants under paragraph (2), the Attorney General
shall—     ‘‘(I) deposit an amount equal to the grant funds
      that were improperly awarded to the grantee into
      the General Fund of the Treasury; and
             ‘‘(II) seek to recoup the costs of the repayment
      to the fund from the grant recipient that was
      erroneously awarded grant funds.
‘‘(B) NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION REQUIREMENTS.—
      ‘‘(i) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this paragraph
and the grant programs described in this Act, the
term ‘nonprofit organization’ means an organization
that is described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and is exempt from taxation
under section 501(a) of such Code.
      ‘‘(ii) PROHIBITION.—The Attorney General may not
award a grant under any grant program described
in this Act to a nonprofit organization that holds money
in offshore accounts for the purpose of avoiding paying
the tax described in section 511(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986.
      ‘‘(iii) DISCLOSURE.—Each nonprofit organization
that is awarded a grant under a grant program
described in this Act and uses the procedures pre-
scribed in regulations to create a rebuttable presump-
tion of reasonableness for the compensation of its offi-
cers, directors, trustees and key employees, shall dis-
close to the Attorney General, in the application for
the grant, the process for determining such compensa-
tion, including the independent persons involved in
reviewing and approving such compensation, the com-
parability data used, and contemporaneous substan-
tiation of the deliberation and decision. Upon request,
the Attorney General shall make the information dis-
closed under this subsection available for public inspec-
tion.
‘‘(C) CONFERENCE EXPENDITURES.—
      ‘‘(i) LIMITATION.—No amounts authorized to be
appropriated to the Department of Justice under this
Act may be used by the Attorney General, or by any
                              S. 47—11

             individual or organization awarded discretionary funds
             through a cooperative agreement under this Act, to
             host or support any expenditure for conferences that
             uses more than $20,000 in Department funds, unless
             the Deputy Attorney General or such Assistant
             Attorney Generals, Directors, or principal deputies as
             the Deputy Attorney General may designate, provides
             prior written authorization that the funds may be
             expended to host a conference.
                  ‘‘(ii) WRITTEN APPROVAL.—Written approval under
             clause (i) shall include a written estimate of all costs
             associated with the conference, including the cost of
             all food and beverages, audiovisual equipment, hono-
             raria for speakers, and any entertainment.
                  ‘‘(iii) REPORT.—The Deputy Attorney General shall
             submit an annual report to the Committee on the
             Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the
             Judiciary of the House of Representatives on all
             approved conference expenditures referenced in this
             paragraph.
             ‘‘(D) ANNUAL CERTIFICATION.—Beginning in the first
        fiscal year beginning after the date of the enactment of
        this Act, the Attorney General shall submit, to the Com-
        mittee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Appropria-
        tions of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary
        and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
        resentatives, an annual certification that—
                  ‘‘(i) all audits issued by the Office of the Inspector
             General under paragraph (1) have been completed and
             reviewed by the appropriate Assistant Attorney Gen-
             eral or Director;
                  ‘‘(ii) all mandatory exclusions required under
             subparagraph (A)(iii) have been issued;
                  ‘‘(iii) all reimbursements required under subpara-
             graph (A)(v) have been made; and
                  ‘‘(iv) includes a list of any grant recipients excluded
             under subparagraph (A) from the previous year.’’.
SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.
     Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Act, the provi-
sions of titles I, II, III, IV, VII, and sections 3, 602, 901, and
902 of this Act shall not take effect until the beginning of the
fiscal year following the date of enactment of this Act.

TITLE I—ENHANCING JUDICIAL AND
  LAW ENFORCEMENT TOOLS TO COM-
  BAT VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
SEC. 101. STOP GRANTS.
     Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.) is amended—
          (1) in section 1001(a)(18) (42 U.S.C. 3793(a)(18)), by
     striking ‘‘$225,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 through
     2011’’ and inserting ‘‘$222,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014
     through 2018’’;
                        S. 47—12

(2) in section 2001(b) (42 U.S.C. 3796gg(b))—
     (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
          (i) by striking ‘‘equipment’’ and inserting
     ‘‘resources’’; and
          (ii) by inserting ‘‘for the protection and safety of
     victims,’’ after ‘‘women,’’;
     (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘sexual assault’’ and
all that follows through ‘‘dating violence’’ and inserting
‘‘domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
stalking, including the appropriate use of nonimmigrant
status under subparagraphs (T) and (U) of section
101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1101(a))’’;
     (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘sexual assault and
domestic violence’’ and inserting ‘‘domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, and stalking’’;
     (D) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘sexual assault and
domestic violence’’ and inserting ‘‘domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, and stalking, as well as the appro-
priate treatment of victims’’;
     (E) in paragraph (4)—
          (i) by striking ‘‘sexual assault and domestic
     violence’’ and inserting ‘‘domestic violence, dating
     violence, sexual assault, and stalking’’; and
          (ii) by inserting ‘‘, classifying,’’ after ‘‘identifying’’;
     (F) in paragraph (5)—
          (i) by inserting ‘‘and legal assistance’’ after ‘‘victim
     services’’;
          (ii) by striking ‘‘domestic violence and dating
     violence’’ and inserting ‘‘domestic violence, dating
     violence, and stalking’’; and
          (iii) by striking ‘‘sexual assault and domestic
     violence’’ and inserting ‘‘domestic violence, dating
     violence, sexual assault, and stalking’’;
     (G) by striking paragraph (6) and redesignating para-
graphs (7) through (14) as paragraphs (6) through (13),
respectively;
     (H) in paragraph (6), as redesignated by subparagraph
(G), by striking ‘‘sexual assault and domestic violence’’ and
inserting ‘‘domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, and stalking’’;
     (I) in paragraph (7), as redesignated by subparagraph
(G), by striking ‘‘and dating violence’’ and inserting ‘‘dating
violence, and stalking’’;
     (J) in paragraph (9), as redesignated by subparagraph
(G), by striking ‘‘domestic violence or sexual assault’’ and
inserting ‘‘ domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, or stalking’’;
     (K) in paragraph (12), as redesignated by subparagraph
(G)—
          (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘triage proto-
     cols to ensure that dangerous or potentially lethal cases
     are identified and prioritized’’ and inserting ‘‘the use
     of evidence-based indicators to assess the risk of
     domestic and dating violence homicide and prioritize
     dangerous or potentially lethal cases’’; and
          (ii) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
                          S. 47—13

           (L) in paragraph (13), as redesignated by subparagraph
     (G)—
                 (i) by striking ‘‘to provide’’ and inserting ‘‘pro-
           viding’’;
                 (ii) by striking ‘‘nonprofit nongovernmental’’;
                 (iii) by striking the comma after ‘‘local govern-
           ments’’;
                 (iv) in the matter following subparagraph (C), by
           striking ‘‘paragraph (14)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph
           (13)’’; and
                 (v) by striking the period at the end and inserting
           a semicolon; and
           (M) by inserting after paragraph (13), as redesignated
     by subparagraph (G), the following:
     ‘‘(14) developing and promoting State, local, or tribal legis-
lation and policies that enhance best practices for responding
to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
stalking;
     ‘‘(15) developing, implementing, or enhancing Sexual
Assault Response Teams, or other similar coordinated commu-
nity responses to sexual assault;
     ‘‘(16) developing and strengthening policies, protocols, best
practices, and training for law enforcement agencies and
prosecutors relating to the investigation and prosecution of
sexual assault cases and the appropriate treatment of victims;
     ‘‘(17) developing, enlarging, or strengthening programs
addressing sexual assault against men, women, and youth in
correctional and detention settings;
     ‘‘(18) identifying and conducting inventories of backlogs
of sexual assault evidence collection kits and developing proto-
cols and policies for responding to and addressing such backlogs,
including protocols and policies for notifying and involving vic-
tims;‘‘(19) developing, enlarging, or strengthening programs and
projects to provide services and responses targeting male and
female victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, or stalking, whose ability to access traditional services
and responses is affected by their sexual orientation or gender
identity, as defined in section 249(c) of title 18, United States
Code; and
     ‘‘(20) developing, enhancing, or strengthening prevention
and educational programming to address domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, with not more than
5 percent of the amount allocated to a State to be used for
this purpose.’’;
     (3) in section 2007 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg–1)—
           (A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘nonprofit nongovern-
     mental victim service programs’’ and inserting ‘‘victim
     service providers’’;
           (B) in subsection (b)(6), by striking ‘‘(not including
     populations of Indian tribes)’’;
           (C) in subsection (c)—
                 (i) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the
           following:
     ‘‘(2) grantees and subgrantees shall develop a plan for
implementation and shall consult and coordinate with—
           ‘‘(A) the State sexual assault coalition;
                                 S. 47—14

               ‘‘(B) the State domestic violence coalition;
               ‘‘(C) the law enforcement entities within the State;
               ‘‘(D) prosecution offices;
               ‘‘(E) State and local courts;
               ‘‘(F) Tribal governments in those States with State
         or federally recognized Indian tribes;
               ‘‘(G) representatives from underserved populations,
         including culturally specific populations;
               ‘‘(H) victim service providers;
               ‘‘(I) population specific organizations; and
               ‘‘(J) other entities that the State or the Attorney Gen-
         eral identifies as needed for the planning process;’’;
                     (ii) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph
               (4);
                     (iii) by inserting after paragraph (2), as amended
               by clause (i), the following:
         ‘‘(3) grantees shall coordinate the State implementation
   plan described in paragraph (2) with the State plans described
   in section 307 of the Family Violence Prevention and Services
   Act (42 U.S.C. 10407) and the programs described in section
   1404 of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10603)
   and section 393A of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
   280b–1b).’’;
                     (iv) in paragraph (4), as redesignated by clause
               (ii)—     (I) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and not
                     less than 25 percent shall be allocated for prosecu-
                     tors’’;
                           (II) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and
                     (C) as subparagraphs (C) and (D);
                           (III) by inserting after subparagraph (A), the
                     following:
               ‘‘(B) not less than 25 percent shall be allocated for
         prosecutors;’’; and
                           (IV) in subparagraph (D) as redesignated by
                     subclause (II) by striking ‘‘for’’ and inserting ‘‘to’’;
                     and
                     (v) by adding at the end the following:
         ‘‘(5) not later than 2 years after the date of enactment
   of this Act, and every year thereafter, not less than 20 percent
   of the total amount granted to a State under this subchapter
   shall be allocated for programs or projects in 2 or more alloca-
   tions listed in paragraph (4) that meaningfully address sexual
   assault, including stranger rape, acquaintance rape, alcohol
   or drug-facilitated rape, and rape within the context of an
   intimate partner relationship.’’;
               (D) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the fol-
         lowing:
   ‘‘(d) APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.—An application for a grant
under this section shall include—
         ‘‘(1) the certifications of qualification required under sub-
   section (c);
         ‘‘(2) proof of compliance with the requirements for the
   payment of forensic medical exams and judicial notification,
   described in section 2010;
                                S. 47—15

         ‘‘(3) proof of compliance with the requirements for paying
   fees and costs relating to domestic violence and protection
   order cases, described in section 2011 of this title;
         ‘‘(4) proof of compliance with the requirements prohibiting
   polygraph examinations of victims of sexual assault, described
   in section 2013 of this title;
   and   ‘‘(5) an implementation plan required under subsection (i);
         ‘‘(6) any other documentation that the Attorney General
   may require.’’;
               (E) in subsection (e)—
                     (i) in paragraph (2)—
                            (I) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘domestic
                     violence and sexual assault’’ and inserting
                     ‘‘domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
                     and stalking’’; and
                            (II) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘linguis-
                     tically and’’; and
                     (ii) by adding at the end the following:
         ‘‘(3) CONDITIONS.—In disbursing grants under this part,
   the Attorney General may impose reasonable conditions on
   grant awards to ensure that the States meet statutory, regu-
   latory, and other program requirements.’’;
               (F) in subsection (f), by striking the period at the
         end and inserting ‘‘, except that, for purposes of this sub-
         section, the costs of the projects for victim services or
         tribes for which there is an exemption under section
         40002(b)(1) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994
         (42 U.S.C. 13925(b)(1)) shall not count toward the total
         costs of the projects.’’; and
               (G) by adding at the end the following:
   ‘‘(i) IMPLEMENTATION PLANS.—A State applying for a grant
under this part shall—
         ‘‘(1) develop an implementation plan in consultation with
   the entities listed in subsection (c)(2), that identifies how the
   State will use the funds awarded under this part, including
   how the State will meet the requirements of subsection (c)(5);
   and   ‘‘(2) submit to the Attorney General—
               ‘‘(A) the implementation plan developed under para-
         graph (1);
               ‘‘(B) documentation from each member of the planning
         committee as to their participation in the planning process;
               ‘‘(C) documentation from the prosecution, law enforce-
         ment, court, and victim services programs to be assisted,
         describing—
                     ‘‘(i) the need for the grant funds;
                     ‘‘(ii) the intended use of the grant funds;
                     ‘‘(iii) the expected result of the grant funds; and
                     ‘‘(iv) the demographic characteristics of the popu-
               lations to be served, including age, disability, race,
               ethnicity, and language background;
               ‘‘(D) a description of how the State will ensure that
         any subgrantees will consult with victim service providers
         during the course of developing their grant applications
         in order to ensure that the proposed activities are designed
                                  S. 47—16

          to promote the safety, confidentiality, and economic
          independence of victims;
                ‘‘(E) demographic data on the distribution of under-
          served populations within the State and a description of
          how the State will meet the needs of underserved popu-
          lations, including the minimum allocation for population
          specific services required under subsection (c)(4)(C);
                ‘‘(F) a description of how the State plans to meet the
          regulations issued pursuant to subsection (e)(2);
                ‘‘(G) goals and objectives for reducing domestic
          violence-related homicides within the State; and
                ‘‘(H) any other information requested by the Attorney
          General.
    ‘‘(j) REALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—A State may use any returned
or remaining funds for any authorized purpose under this part
if—     ‘‘(1) funds from a subgrant awarded under this part are
    returned to the State; or
          ‘‘(2) the State does not receive sufficient eligible applica-
    tions to award the full funding within the allocations in sub-
    section (c)(4)’’;
          (4) in section 2010 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg–4)—
                (A) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph (1) and
          inserting the following:
          ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A State, Indian tribal government, or
    unit of local government shall not be entitled to funds under
    this subchapter unless the State, Indian tribal government,
    unit of local government, or another governmental entity—
                ‘‘(A) incurs the full out-of-pocket cost of forensic medical
          exams described in subsection (b) for victims of sexual
          assault; and
                ‘‘(B) coordinates with health care providers in the
          region to notify victims of sexual assault of the availability
          of rape exams at no cost to the victims.’’;
                (B) in subsection (b)—
                      (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘or’’ after the
                semicolon;
                      (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘; or’’ and inserting
                a period; and
                      (iii) by striking paragraph (3); and
                (C) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
    ‘‘(d) NONCOOPERATION.—
          ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To be in compliance with this section,
    a State, Indian tribal government, or unit of local government
    shall comply with subsection (b) without regard to whether
    the victim participates in the criminal justice system or
    cooperates with law enforcement.
          ‘‘(2) COMPLIANCE PERIOD.—States, territories, and Indian
    tribal governments shall have 3 years from the date of enact-
    ment of this Act to come into compliance with this section.’’;
    and   (5) in section 2011(a)(1) (42 U.S.C. 3796gg–5(a)(1))—
                (A) by inserting ‘‘modification, enforcement, dismissal,
          withdrawal’’ after ‘‘registration,’’ each place it appears;
                (B) by inserting ‘‘, dating violence, sexual assault, or
          stalking’’ after ‘‘felony domestic violence’’; and
                               S. 47—17

             (C) by striking ‘‘victim of domestic violence’’ and all
         that follows through ‘‘sexual assault’’ and inserting ‘‘victim
         of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
         stalking’’.
SEC. 102. GRANTS TO ENCOURAGE ARREST POLICIES AND ENFORCE-
           MENT OF PROTECTION ORDERS.
    (a) IN GENERAL.—Part U of title I of the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796hh et seq.)
is amended—
         (1) in section 2101 (42 U.S.C. 3796hh)—
              (A) in subsection (b)—
                   (i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by
              striking ‘‘States,’’ and all that follows through ‘‘units
              of local government’’ and inserting ‘‘grantees’’;
                   (ii) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and enforcement
              of protection orders across State and tribal lines’’ before
              the period;
                   (iii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and training
              in police departments to improve tracking of cases’’
              and inserting ‘‘data collection systems, and training
              in police departments to improve tracking of cases
              and classification of complaints’’;
                   (iv) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘and provide
              the appropriate training and education about domestic
              violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking’’
              after ‘‘computer tracking systems’’;
                   (v) in paragraph (5), by inserting ‘‘and other victim
              services’’ after ‘‘legal advocacy service programs’’;
                   (vi) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘judges’’ and
              inserting ‘‘Federal, State, tribal, territorial, and local
              judges, courts, and court-based and court-related per-
              sonnel’’;
                   (vii) in paragraph (8), by striking ‘‘and sexual
              assault’’ and inserting ‘‘dating violence, sexual assault,
              and stalking’’;
                   (viii) in paragraph (10), by striking ‘‘non-profit,
              non-governmental victim services organizations,’’ and
              inserting ‘‘victim service providers, staff from popu-
              lation specific organizations,’’; and
                   (ix) by adding at the end the following:
         ‘‘(14) To develop and implement training programs for
    prosecutors and other prosecution-related personnel regarding
    best practices to ensure offender accountability, victim safety,
    and victim consultation in cases involving domestic violence,
    dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
         ‘‘(15) To develop or strengthen policies, protocols, and
    training for law enforcement, prosecutors, and the judiciary
    in recognizing, investigating, and prosecuting instances of
    domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking
    against immigrant victims, including the appropriate use of
    applications for nonimmigrant status under subparagraphs (T)
    and (U) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality
    Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)).
         ‘‘(16) To develop and promote State, local, or tribal legisla-
    tion and policies that enhance best practices for responding
    to the crimes of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
                             S. 47—18

assault, and stalking, including the appropriate treatment of
victims.
     ‘‘(17) To develop, implement, or enhance sexual assault
nurse examiner programs or sexual assault forensic examiner
programs, including the hiring and training of such examiners.
     ‘‘(18) To develop, implement, or enhance Sexual Assault
Response Teams or similar coordinated community responses
to sexual assault.
     ‘‘(19) To develop and strengthen policies, protocols, and
training for law enforcement officers and prosecutors regarding
the investigation and prosecution of sexual assault cases and
the appropriate treatment of victims.
     ‘‘(20) To provide human immunodeficiency virus testing
programs, counseling, and prophylaxis for victims of sexual
assault.
     ‘‘(21) To identify and inventory backlogs of sexual assault
evidence collection kits and to develop protocols for responding
to and addressing such backlogs, including policies and proto-
cols for notifying and involving victims.
     ‘‘(22) To develop multidisciplinary high-risk teams focusing
on reducing domestic violence and dating violence homicides
by—     ‘‘(A) using evidence-based indicators to assess the risk
     of homicide and link high-risk victims to immediate crisis
     intervention services;
          ‘‘(B) identifying and managing high-risk offenders; and
          ‘‘(C) providing ongoing victim advocacy and referrals
     to comprehensive services including legal, housing, health
     care, and economic assistance.’’;
          (B) in subsection (c)—
                (i) in paragraph (1)—
                      (I) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A),
                by inserting ‘‘except for a court,’’ before ‘‘certify’’;
                and   (II) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and
                (B) as clauses (i) and (ii), and adjusting the margin
                accordingly;
                (ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘except for a
          court,’’ before ‘‘demonstrate’’;
                (iii) in paragraph (3)—
                      (I) by striking ‘‘spouses’’ each place it appears
                and inserting ‘‘parties’’; and
                      (II) by striking ‘‘spouse’’ and inserting ‘‘party’’;
                (iv) in paragraph (4)—
                      (I) by inserting ‘‘, dating violence, sexual
                assault, or stalking’’ after ‘‘felony domestic
                violence’’;
                      (II) by inserting ‘‘modification, enforcement,
                dismissal,’’ after ‘‘registration,’’ each place it
                appears;
                      (III) by inserting ‘‘dating violence,’’ after
                ‘‘victim of domestic violence,’’; and
                      (IV) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
                (v) in paragraph (5)—
                      (I) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A),
                by striking ‘‘, not later than 3 years after January
                5, 2006’’;     S. 47—19
                              (II) by inserting ‘‘, trial of, or sentencing for’’
                        after ‘‘investigation of’’ each place it appears;
                              (III) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and
                        (B) as clauses (i) and (ii), and adjusting the margin
                        accordingly;
                              (IV) in clause (ii), as redesignated by subclause
                        (III) of this clause, by striking ‘‘subparagraph (A)’’
                        and inserting ‘‘clause (i)’’; and
                              (V) by striking the period at the end and
                        inserting ‘‘; and’’;
                        (vi) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (5),
                 as amended by this subparagraph, as subparagraphs
                 (A) through (E), respectively;
                        (vii) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A),
                 as redesignated by clause (v) of this subparagraph—
                              (I) by striking the comma that immediately
                        follows another comma; and
                              (II) by striking ‘‘grantees are States’’ and
                        inserting the following: ‘‘grantees are—
           ‘‘(1) States’’; and
                        (viii) by adding at the end the following:
           ‘‘(2) a State, tribal, or territorial domestic violence or sexual
     assault coalition or a victim service provider that partners
     with a State, Indian tribal government, or unit of local govern-
     ment that certifies that the State, Indian tribal government,
     or unit of local government meets the requirements under
     paragraph (1).’’;
                 (C) in subsection (d)—
                        (i) in paragraph (1)—
                              (I) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A),
                        by inserting ‘‘, policy,’’ after ‘‘law’’; and
                              (II) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘and
                        the defendant is in custody or has been served
                        with the information or indictment’’ before the
                        semicolon; and
                        (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘it’’ and inserting
                 ‘‘its’’; and
                 (D) by adding at the end the following:
     ‘‘(f) ALLOCATION FOR TRIBAL COALITIONS.—Of the amounts
appropriated for purposes of this part for each fiscal year, not
less than 5 percent shall be available for grants under section
2001 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets
Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg).
     ‘‘(g) ALLOCATION FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT.—Of the amounts appro-
priated for purposes of this part for each fiscal year, not less
than 25 percent shall be available for projects that address sexual
assault, including stranger rape, acquaintance rape, alcohol or drug-
facilitated rape, and rape within the context of an intimate partner
relationship.’’; and
           (2) in section 2102(a) (42 U.S.C. 3796hh–1(a))—
                 (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘court,’’ after ‘‘tribal
           government,’’; and
                 (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘nonprofit, private
           sexual assault and domestic violence programs’’ and
           inserting ‘‘victim service providers and, as appropriate,
           population specific organizations’’.
                               S. 47—20

     (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Section 1001(a)(19)
of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3793(a)(19)) is amended—
          (1) by striking ‘‘$75,000,000’’ and all that follows through
     ‘‘2011.’’ and inserting ‘‘$73,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014
     through 2018.’’; and
          (2) by striking the period that immediately follows another
     period.
SEC. 103. LEGAL ASSISTANCE FOR VICTIMS.
    Section 1201 of the Violence Against Women Act of 2000 (42
U.S.C. 3796gg–6) is amended—
         (1) in subsection (a)—
               (A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘arising as a
         consequence of’’ and inserting ‘‘relating to or arising out
         of’’; and
               (B) in the second sentence, by inserting ‘‘or arising
         out of’’ after ‘‘relating to’’;
         (2) in subsection (b)—
               (A) in the heading, by inserting ‘‘AND GRANT CONDI-
         TIONS’’ after ‘‘DEFINITIONS’’; and
               (B) by inserting ‘‘and grant conditions’’ after ‘‘defini-
         tions’’;
         (3) in subsection (c)—
               (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘victims services
         organizations’’ and inserting ‘‘victim service providers’’; and
               (B) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the fol-
         lowing:
         ‘‘(3) to implement, expand, and establish efforts and
    projects to provide competent, supervised pro bono legal assist-
    ance for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
    assault, or stalking, except that not more than 10 percent
    of the funds awarded under this section may be used for the
    purpose described in this paragraph.’’;
         (4) in subsection (d)—
               (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘this section has com-
         pleted’’ and all that follows and inserting the following:
         ‘‘this section—’’
               ‘‘(A) has demonstrated expertise in providing legal
         assistance to victims of domestic violence, dating violence,
         sexual assault, or stalking in the targeted population; or
               ‘‘(B)(i) is partnered with an entity or person that has
         demonstrated expertise described in subparagraph (A); and
               ‘‘(ii) has completed, or will complete, training in connec-
         tion with domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or
         sexual assault and related legal issues, including training
         on evidence-based risk factors for domestic and dating
         violence homicide;’’; and
               (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘stalking organization’’
         and inserting ‘‘stalking victim service provider’’; and
         (5) in subsection (f) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘this
    section’’ and all that follows and inserting the following: ‘‘this
    section $57,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018.’’.
SEC. 104. CONSOLIDATION OF GRANTS TO SUPPORT FAMILIES IN THE
            JUSTICE SYSTEM.
     (a) IN GENERAL.—Title III of division B of the Victims of Traf-
ficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–386;
                               S. 47—21
114 Stat. 1509) is amended by striking the section preceding section
1302 (42 U.S.C. 10420), as amended by section 306 of the Violence
Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act
of 2005 (Public Law 109–162; 119 Stat. 316), and inserting the
following:
‘‘SEC. 1301. GRANTS TO SUPPORT FAMILIES IN THE JUSTICE SYSTEM.
     ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General may make grants
to States, units of local government, courts (including juvenile
courts), Indian tribal governments, nonprofit organizations, legal
services providers, and victim services providers to improve the
response of all aspects of the civil and criminal justice system
to families with a history of domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, or stalking, or in cases involving allegations of
child sexual abuse.
to—‘‘(b) USE OF FUNDS.—A grant under this section may be used
           ‘‘(1) provide supervised visitation and safe visitation
     exchange of children and youth by and between parents in
     situations involving domestic violence, dating violence, child
     sexual abuse, sexual assault, or stalking;
           ‘‘(2) develop and promote State, local, and tribal legislation,
     policies, and best practices for improving civil and criminal
     court functions, responses, practices, and procedures in cases
     involving a history of domestic violence or sexual assault, or
     in cases involving allegations of child sexual abuse, including
     cases in which the victim proceeds pro se;
           ‘‘(3) educate court-based and court-related personnel and
     court-appointed personnel (including custody evaluators and
     guardians ad litem) and child protective services workers on
     the dynamics of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
     assault, and stalking, including information on perpetrator
     behavior, evidence-based risk factors for domestic and dating
     violence homicide, and on issues relating to the needs of victims,
     including safety, security, privacy, and confidentiality, including
     cases in which the victim proceeds pro se;
           ‘‘(4) provide appropriate resources in juvenile court matters
     to respond to dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault
     (including child sexual abuse), and stalking and ensure nec-
     essary services dealing with the health and mental health
     of victims are available;
           ‘‘(5) enable courts or court-based or court-related programs
     to develop or enhance—
                 ‘‘(A) court infrastructure (such as specialized courts,
           consolidated courts, dockets, intake centers, or interpreter
           services);
                 ‘‘(B) community-based initiatives within the court
           system (such as court watch programs, victim assistants,
           pro se victim assistance programs, or community-based
           supplementary services);
                 ‘‘(C) offender management, monitoring, and account-
           ability programs;
                 ‘‘(D) safe and confidential information-storage and
           information-sharing databases within and between court
           systems;
                               S. 47—22

               ‘‘(E) education and outreach programs to improve
         community access, including enhanced access for under-
         served populations; and
               ‘‘(F) other projects likely to improve court responses
         to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
         stalking;
         ‘‘(6) provide civil legal assistance and advocacy services,
   including legal information and resources in cases in which
   the victim proceeds pro se, to—
               ‘‘(A) victims of domestic violence; and
               ‘‘(B) nonoffending parents in matters—
                     ‘‘(i) that involve allegations of child sexual abuse;
                     ‘‘(ii) that relate to family matters, including civil
               protection orders, custody, and divorce; and
                     ‘‘(iii) in which the other parent is represented by
               counsel;
         ‘‘(7) collect data and provide training and technical assist-
   ance, including developing State, local, and tribal model codes
   and policies, to improve the capacity of grantees and commu-
   nities to address the civil justice needs of victims of domestic
   violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking who have
   legal representation, who are proceeding pro se, or who are
   proceeding with the assistance of a legal advocate; and
         ‘‘(8) to improve training and education to assist judges,
   judicial personnel, attorneys, child welfare personnel, and legal
   advocates in the civil justice system.
   ‘‘(c) CONSIDERATIONS.—
         ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In making grants for purposes described
   in paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection (b), the Attorney
   General shall consider—
               ‘‘(A) the number of families to be served by the pro-
         posed programs and services;
               ‘‘(B) the extent to which the proposed programs and
         services serve underserved populations;
               ‘‘(C) the extent to which the applicant demonstrates
         cooperation and collaboration with nonprofit, nongovern-
         mental entities in the local community with demonstrated
         histories of effective work on domestic violence, dating
         violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including State or
         tribal domestic violence coalitions, State or tribal sexual
         assault coalitions, local shelters, and programs for domestic
         violence and sexual assault victims; and
               ‘‘(D) the extent to which the applicant demonstrates
         coordination and collaboration with State, tribal, and local
         court systems, including mechanisms for communication
         and referral.
         ‘‘(2) OTHER GRANTS.—In making grants under subsection
   (b)(8) the Attorney General shall take into account the extent
   to which the grantee has expertise addressing the judicial sys-
   tem’s handling of family violence, child custody, child abuse
   and neglect, adoption, foster care, supervised visitation, divorce,
   and parentage.
   ‘‘(d) APPLICANT REQUIREMENTS.—The Attorney General may
make a grant under this section to an applicant that—
         ‘‘(1) demonstrates expertise in the areas of domestic
   violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or child
   sexual abuse, as appropriate;
                                S. 47—23

           ‘‘(2) ensures that any fees charged to individuals for use
     of supervised visitation programs and services are based on
     the income of those individuals, unless otherwise provided by
     court order;
           ‘‘(3) for a court-based program, certifies that victims of
     domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking
     are not charged fees or any other costs related to the filing,
     petitioning, modifying, issuance, registration, enforcement,
     withdrawal, or dismissal of matters relating to the domestic
     violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking;
           ‘‘(4) demonstrates that adequate security measures,
     including adequate facilities, procedures, and personnel capable
     of preventing violence, and adequate standards are, or will
     be, in place (including the development of protocols or policies
     to ensure that confidential information is not shared with
     courts, law enforcement agencies, or child welfare agencies
     unless necessary to ensure the safety of any child or adult
     using the services of a program funded under this section),
     if the applicant proposes to operate supervised visitation pro-
     grams and services or safe visitation exchange;
           ‘‘(5) certifies that the organizational policies of the applicant
     do not require mediation or counseling involving offenders and
     victims being physically present in the same place, in cases
     where domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
     stalking is alleged;
           ‘‘(6) certifies that any person providing legal assistance
     through a program funded under this section has completed
     or will complete training on domestic violence, dating violence,
     sexual assault, and stalking, including child sexual abuse, and
     related legal issues; and
           ‘‘(7) certifies that any person providing custody evaluation
     or guardian ad litem services through a program funded under
     this section has completed or will complete training developed
     with input from and in collaboration with a tribal, State, terri-
     torial, or local domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
     or stalking victim service provider or coalition on the dynamics
     of domestic violence and sexual assault, including child sexual
     abuse, that includes training on how to review evidence of
     past abuse and the use of evidenced-based theories to make
     recommendations on custody and visitation.
     ‘‘(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There is authorized
to be appropriated to carry out this section, $22,000,000 for each
of fiscal years 2014 through 2018. Amounts appropriated pursuant
to this subsection shall remain available until expended.
     ‘‘(f) ALLOTMENT FOR INDIAN TRIBES.—
           ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less than 10 percent of the total
     amount available under this section for each fiscal year shall
     be available for grants under the program authorized by section
     3796gg–10 of this title.
           ‘‘(2) APPLICABILITY OF PART.—The requirements of this sec-
     tion shall not apply to funds allocated for the program described
     in paragraph (1).’’.
     (b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subtitle J of
the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043 et
seq.) is repealed.
                                S. 47—24
SEC. 105. SEX OFFENDER MANAGEMENT.
    Section 40152(c) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994
(42 U.S.C. 13941) is amended by striking ‘‘$5,000,000’’ and all
that follows and inserting ‘‘$5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014
through 2018.’’.
SEC. 106. COURT-APPOINTED SPECIAL ADVOCATE PROGRAM.
     Subtitle B of title II of the Crime Control Act of 1990 (42
U.S.C. 13011 et seq.) is amended—
           (1) in section 216 (42 U.S.C. 13012), by striking ‘‘January
     1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2015’’;
           (2) in section 217 (42 U.S.C. 13013)—
                (A) by striking ‘‘Code of Ethics’’ in section (c)(2) and
           inserting ‘‘Standards for Programs’’; and
                (B) by adding at the end the following:
     ‘‘(e) REPORTING.—An organization that receives a grant under
this section for a fiscal year shall submit to the Administrator
a report regarding the use of the grant for the fiscal year, including
a discussion of outcome performance measures (which shall be
established by the Administrator) to determine the effectiveness
of the programs of the organization in meeting the needs of children
in the child welfare system.’’; and
           (3) in section 219(a) (42 U.S.C. 13014(a)), by striking ‘‘fiscal
     years 2007 through 2011’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal years 2014
     through 2018’’.
SEC. 107. CRIMINAL PROVISION RELATING TO STALKING, INCLUDING
           CYBERSTALKING.
    (a) INTERSTATE DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.—Section 2261(a)(1) of title
18, United States Code, is amended—
    and  (1) by inserting ‘‘is present’’ after ‘‘Indian Country or’’;
         (2) by inserting ‘‘or presence’’ after ‘‘as a result of such
    travel’’;
    (b) STALKING.—Section 2261A of title 18, United States Code,
is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 2261A. Stalking
     ‘‘Whoever—
         ‘‘(1) travels in interstate or foreign commerce or is present
     within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the
     United States, or enters or leaves Indian country, with the
     intent to kill, injure, harass, intimidate, or place under surveil-
     lance with intent to kill, injure, harass, or intimidate another
     person, and in the course of, or as a result of, such travel
     or presence engages in conduct that—
               ‘‘(A) places that person in reasonable fear of the death
         of, or serious bodily injury to—
                     ‘‘(i) that person;
                     ‘‘(ii) an immediate family member (as defined in
               section 115) of that person; or
               or    ‘‘(iii) a spouse or intimate partner of that person;
               ‘‘(B) causes, attempts to cause, or would be reasonably
         expected to cause substantial emotional distress to a person
         described in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of subparagraph (A);
         or
                               S. 47—25

          ‘‘(2) with the intent to kill, injure, harass, intimidate, or
      place under surveillance with intent to kill, injure, harass,
      or intimidate another person, uses the mail, any interactive
      computer service or electronic communication service or elec-
      tronic communication system of interstate commerce, or any
      other facility of interstate or foreign commerce to engage in
      a course of conduct that—
                ‘‘(A) places that person in reasonable fear of the death
          of or serious bodily injury to a person described in clause
          (i), (ii), or (iii) of paragraph (1)(A); or
                ‘‘(B) causes, attempts to cause, or would be reasonably
          expected to cause substantial emotional distress to a person
          described in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of paragraph (1)(A),
      shall be punished as provided in section 2261(b) of this title.’’.
      (c) INTERSTATE VIOLATION OF PROTECTION ORDER.—Section
2262(a)(2) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
‘‘is present’’ after ‘‘Indian Country or’’.
SEC. 108. OUTREACH AND SERVICES TO UNDERSERVED POPULATIONS
            GRANT.
     Section 120 of the Violence Against Women and Department
of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14045) is amended
to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 120. GRANTS FOR OUTREACH AND SERVICES TO UNDERSERVED
             POPULATIONS.
   ‘‘(a) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—
         ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts appropriated under the
   grant programs identified in paragraph (2), the Attorney Gen-
   eral shall take 2 percent of such appropriated amounts and
   combine them to award grants to eligible entities described
   in subsection (b) of this section to develop and implement
   outreach strategies targeted at adult or youth victims of
   domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking
   in underserved populations and to provide victim services to
   meet the needs of adult and youth victims of domestic violence,
   dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking in underserved
   populations. The requirements of the grant programs identified
   in paragraph (2) shall not apply to this grant program.
         ‘‘(2) PROGRAMS COVERED.—The programs covered by para-
   graph (1) are the programs carried out under the following
   provisions: ‘‘(A) Section 2001 of the Omnibus Crime Control and
         Safe Streets Act of 1968 (Grants to Combat Violent Crimes
         Against Women).
               ‘‘(B) Section 2101 of the Omnibus Crime Control and
         Safe Streets Act of 1968 (Grants to Encourage Arrest Poli-
         cies and Enforcement of Protection Orders Program).
   ‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—Eligible entities under this section
are—   ‘‘(1) population specific organizations that have dem-
    onstrated experience and expertise in providing population spe-
    cific services in the relevant underserved communities, or popu-
    lation specific organizations working in partnership with a
    victim service provider or domestic violence or sexual assault
    coalition;
         ‘‘(2) victim service providers offering population specific
    services for a specific underserved population; or
                               S. 47—26

           ‘‘(3) victim service providers working in partnership with
     a national, State, tribal, or local organization that has dem-
     onstrated experience and expertise in providing population spe-
     cific services in the relevant underserved population.
     ‘‘(c) PLANNING GRANTS.—The Attorney General may use up
to 25 percent of funds available under this section to make one-
time planning grants to eligible entities to support the planning
and development of specially designed and targeted programs for
adult and youth victims in one or more underserved populations,
including—
           ‘‘(1) identifying, building and strengthening partnerships
     with potential collaborators within underserved populations,
     Federal, State, tribal, territorial or local government entities,
     and public and private organizations;
           ‘‘(2) conducting a needs assessment of the community and
     the targeted underserved population or populations to deter-
     mine what the barriers are to service access and what factors
     contribute to those barriers, using input from the targeted
     underserved population or populations;
           ‘‘(3) identifying promising prevention, outreach and inter-
     vention strategies for victims from a targeted underserved popu-
     lation or populations; and
           ‘‘(4) developing a plan, with the input of the targeted under-
     served population or populations, for implementing prevention,
     outreach and intervention strategies to address the barriers
     to accessing services, promoting community engagement in the
     prevention of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
     and stalking within the targeted underserved populations, and
     evaluating the program.
     ‘‘(d) IMPLEMENTATION GRANTS.—The Attorney General shall
make grants to eligible entities for the purpose of providing or
enhancing population specific outreach and services to adult and
youth victims in one or more underserved populations, including—
           ‘‘(1) working with Federal, State, tribal, territorial and
     local governments, agencies, and organizations to develop or
     enhance population specific services;
           ‘‘(2) strengthening the capacity of underserved populations
     to provide population specific services;
           ‘‘(3) strengthening the capacity of traditional victim service
     providers to provide population specific services;
           ‘‘(4) strengthening the effectiveness of criminal and civil
     justice interventions by providing training for law enforcement,
     prosecutors, judges and other court personnel on domestic
     violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking in under-
     served populations; or
           ‘‘(5) working in cooperation with an underserved population
     to develop and implement outreach, education, prevention, and
     intervention strategies that highlight available resources and
     the specific issues faced by victims of domestic violence, dating
     violence, sexual assault, or stalking from underserved popu-
     lations.
     ‘‘(e) APPLICATION.—An eligible entity desiring a grant under
this section shall submit an application to the Director of the
Office on Violence Against Women at such time, in such form,
and in such manner as the Director may prescribe.
     ‘‘(f) REPORTS.—Each eligible entity receiving a grant under
this section shall submit to the Director of the Office on Violence
                              S. 47—27

Against Women a report that describes the activities carried out
with grant funds.
    ‘‘(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—In addition to the
funds identified in subsection (a)(1), there are authorized to be
appropriated to carry out this section $2,000,000 for each of fiscal
years 2014 through 2018.
    ‘‘(h) DEFINITIONS AND GRANT CONDITIONS.—In this section the
definitions and grant conditions in section 40002 of the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13925) shall apply.’’.
SEC. 109. CULTURALLY SPECIFIC SERVICES GRANT.
    Section 121 of the Violence Against Women and Department
of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14045a) is
amended—
        (1) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘AND LINGUIS-
    TICALLY’’;
        (2) by striking ‘‘and linguistically’’ each place it appears;
        (3) by striking ‘‘and linguistic’’ each place it appears;
        (4) by striking subsection (a)(2) and inserting:
        ‘‘(2) PROGRAMS COVERED.—The programs covered by para-
    graph (1) are the programs carried out under the following
    provisions:
              ‘‘(A) Section 2101 of the Omnibus Crime Control and
        Safe Streets Act of 1968 (Grants to Encourage Arrest Poli-
        cies and Enforcement of Protection Orders).
              ‘‘(B) Section 14201 of division B of the Victims of Traf-
        ficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C.
        3796gg–6) (Legal Assistance for Victims).
              ‘‘(C) Section 40295 of the Violence Against Women
        Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13971) (Rural Domestic Violence,
        Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, Stalking, and Child Abuse
        Enforcement Assistance).
              ‘‘(D) Section 40802 of the Violence Against Women
        Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14041a) (Enhanced Training and
        Services to End Violence Against Women Later in Life).
              ‘‘(E) Section 1402 of division B of the Victims of Traf-
        ficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C.
        3796gg–7) (Education, Training, and Enhanced Services
        to End Violence Against and Abuse of Women with Disabil-
        ities).’’; and
        (5) in subsection (g), by striking ‘‘linguistic and’’.

TITLE II—IMPROVING SERVICES FOR
  VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE,
  DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT,
  AND STALKING
SEC. 201. SEXUAL ASSAULT SERVICES PROGRAM.
    (a) GRANTS TO STATES AND TERRITORIES.—Section 41601(b) of
the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043g(b))
is amended—
         (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘other programs’’ and
    all that follows and inserting ‘‘other nongovernmental or tribal
    programs and projects to assist individuals who have been
                                S. 47—28

      victimized by sexual assault, without regard to the age of
      the individual.’’;
           (2) in paragraph (2)—
                (A) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘or tribal pro-
           grams and activities’’ after ‘‘nongovernmental organiza-
           tions’’; and
                (B) in subparagraph (C)(v), by striking ‘‘linguistically
           and’’; and
           (3) in paragraph (4)—
                (A) by inserting ‘‘(including the District of Columbia
           and Puerto Rico)’’ after ‘‘The Attorney General shall allo-
           cate to each State’’;
                (B) by striking ‘‘the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico,’’
           after ‘‘Guam’’;
                (C) by striking ‘‘0.125 percent’’ and inserting ‘‘0.25
           percent’’; and
                (D) by striking ‘‘The District of Columbia shall be
           treated as a territory for purposes of calculating its alloca-
           tion under the preceding formula.’’.
      (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Section 41601(f)(1) of
the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043g(f)(1))
is amended by striking ‘‘$50,000,000 to remain available until
expended for each of the fiscal years 2007 through 2011’’ and
inserting ‘‘$40,000,000 to remain available until expended for each
of fiscal years 2014 through 2018’’.
SEC. 202. RURAL DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL
           ASSAULT, STALKING, AND CHILD ABUSE ENFORCEMENT
           ASSISTANCE.
    Section 40295 of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994
(42 U.S.C. 13971) is amended—
         (1) in subsection (a)(1)(H), by inserting ‘‘, including sexual
    assault forensic examiners’’ before the semicolon;
         (2) in subsection (b)—
               (A) in paragraph (1)—
                     (i) by striking ‘‘victim advocacy groups’’ and
               inserting ‘‘victim service providers’’; and
                     (ii) by inserting ‘‘, including developing multidisci-
               plinary teams focusing on high risk cases with the
               goal of preventing domestic and dating violence homi-
               cides’’ before the semicolon;
               (B) in paragraph (2)—
                     (i) by striking ‘‘and other long- and short-term
               assistance’’ and inserting ‘‘legal assistance, and other
               long-term and short-term victim and population spe-
               cific services’’; and
                     (ii) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
               (C) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the
         end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
               (D) by adding at the end the following:
         ‘‘(4) developing, enlarging, or strengthening programs
    addressing sexual assault, including sexual assault forensic
    examiner programs, Sexual Assault Response Teams, law
    enforcement training, and programs addressing rape kit back-
    logs.‘‘(5) developing programs and strategies that focus on the
    specific needs of victims of domestic violence, dating violence,
                               S. 47—29

    sexual assault, and stalking who reside in remote rural and
    geographically isolated areas, including addressing the chal-
    lenges posed by the lack of access to shelters and victims
    services, and limited law enforcement resources and training,
    and providing training and resources to Community Health
    Aides involved in the delivery of Indian Health Service pro-
    grams.’’; and
         (3) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ‘‘$55,000,000 for each
    of the fiscal years 2007 through 2011’’ and inserting
    ‘‘$50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018’’.
SEC. 203. TRAINING AND SERVICES TO END VIOLENCE AGAINST
          WOMEN WITH DISABILITIES GRANTS.
    Section 1402 of division B of the Victims of Trafficking and
Violence Protection Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg–7) is amended—
         (1) in subsection (b)—
              (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘(including using
         evidence-based indicators to assess the risk of domestic
         and dating violence homicide)’’ after ‘‘risk reduction’’;
              (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘victim service
         organizations’’ and inserting ‘‘victim service providers’’; and
              (C) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘victim services
         organizations’’ and inserting ‘‘victim service providers’’;
         (2) in subsection (c)(1)(D), by striking ‘‘nonprofit and non-
    governmental victim services organization, such as a State’’
    and inserting ‘‘victim service provider, such as a State or tribal’’;
    and  (3) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘$10,000,000 for each
    of the fiscal years 2007 through 2011’’ and inserting ‘‘$9,000,000
    for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018’’.
SEC. 204. ENHANCED TRAINING AND SERVICES TO END ABUSE IN
           LATER LIFE.
    (a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle H of the Violence Against Women
Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14041 et seq.) is amended to read as follows:

     ‘‘Subtitle H—Enhanced Training and
      Services To End Abuse Later in Life
‘‘SEC. 40801. ENHANCED TRAINING AND SERVICES TO END ABUSE IN
               LATER LIFE.
    ‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
          ‘‘(1) the term ‘exploitation’ has the meaning given the term
    in section 2011 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397j);
          ‘‘(2) the term ‘later life’, relating to an individual, means
    the individual is 50 years of age or older; and
          ‘‘(3) the term ‘neglect’ means the failure of a caregiver
    or fiduciary to provide the goods or services that are necessary
    to maintain the health or safety of an individual in later life.
    ‘‘(b) GRANT PROGRAM.—
          ‘‘(1) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—The Attorney General may
    make grants to eligible entities to carry out the activities
    described in paragraph (2).
          ‘‘(2) MANDATORY AND PERMISSIBLE ACTIVITIES.—
                           S. 47—30

          ‘‘(A) MANDATORY ACTIVITIES.—An eligible entity
    receiving a grant under this section shall use the funds
    received under the grant to—
                ‘‘(i) provide training programs to assist law enforce-
          ment agencies, prosecutors, agencies of States or units
          of local government, population specific organizations,
          victim service providers, victim advocates, and relevant
          officers in Federal, tribal, State, territorial, and local
          courts in recognizing and addressing instances of elder
          abuse;‘‘(ii) provide or enhance services for victims of
          abuse in later life, including domestic violence, dating
          violence, sexual assault, stalking, exploitation, and
          neglect;
                ‘‘(iii) establish or support multidisciplinary collabo-
          rative community responses to victims of abuse in later
          life, including domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
          assault, stalking, exploitation, and neglect; and
                ‘‘(iv) conduct cross-training for law enforcement
          agencies, prosecutors, agencies of States or units of
          local government, attorneys, health care providers,
          population specific organizations, faith-based advo-
          cates, victim service providers, and courts to better
          serve victims of abuse in later life, including domestic
          violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking,
          exploitation, and neglect.
          ‘‘(B) PERMISSIBLE ACTIVITIES.—An eligible entity
    receiving a grant under this section may use the funds
    received under the grant to—
                ‘‘(i) provide training programs to assist attorneys,
          health care providers, faith-based leaders, or other
          community-based organizations in recognizing and
          addressing instances of abuse in later life, including
          domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
          stalking, exploitation, and neglect; or
                ‘‘(ii) conduct outreach activities and awareness
          campaigns to ensure that victims of abuse in later
          life, including domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
          assault, stalking, exploitation, and neglect receive
          appropriate assistance.
          ‘‘(C) WAIVER.—The Attorney General may waive 1 or
    more of the activities described in subparagraph (A) upon
    making a determination that the activity would duplicate
    services available in the community.
          ‘‘(D) LIMITATION.—An eligible entity receiving a grant
    under this section may use not more than 10 percent
    of the total funds received under the grant for an activity
    described in subparagraph (B)(ii).
    ‘‘(3) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—An entity shall be eligible to
receive a grant under this section if—
          ‘‘(A) the entity is—
                ‘‘(i) a State;
                ‘‘(ii) a unit of local government;
                ‘‘(iii) a tribal government or tribal organization;
                ‘‘(iv) a population specific organization with dem-
          onstrated experience in assisting individuals over 50
          years of age;
                                S. 47—31

                     ‘‘(v) a victim service provider with demonstrated
               experience in addressing domestic violence, dating
               violence, sexual assault, and stalking; or
                     ‘‘(vi) a State, tribal, or territorial domestic violence
               or sexual assault coalition; and
               ‘‘(B) the entity demonstrates that it is part of a multi-
         disciplinary partnership that includes, at a minimum—
                     ‘‘(i) a law enforcement agency;
                     ‘‘(ii) a prosecutor’s office;
                     ‘‘(iii) a victim service provider; and
                     ‘‘(iv) a nonprofit program or government agency
               with demonstrated experience in assisting individuals
               in later life;
         ‘‘(4) UNDERSERVED POPULATIONS.—In making grants under
    this section, the Attorney General shall give priority to pro-
    posals providing services to culturally specific and underserved
    populations.
         ‘‘(5) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There is author-
    ized to be appropriated to carry out this section $9,000,000
    for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018.’’.

TITLE   III—SERVICES, PROTECTION,
  AND JUSTICE FOR YOUNG VICTIMS OF
  VIOLENCE
SEC. 301. RAPE PREVENTION AND EDUCATION GRANT.
     Section 393A of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280b–
1b) is amended—
          (1) in subsection (a)—
                (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting
          ‘‘, territorial or tribal’’ after ‘‘crisis centers, State’’; and
                (B) in paragraph (6), by inserting ‘‘and alcohol’’ after
          ‘‘about drugs’’; and
          (2) in subsection (c)—
                (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘$80,000,000 for each
          of fiscal years 2007 through 2011’’ and inserting
          ‘‘$50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018’’;
          and   (B) by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(3) BASELINE FUNDING FOR STATES, THE DISTRICT OF
     COLUMBIA, AND PUERTO RICO.—A minimum allocation of
     $150,000 shall be awarded in each fiscal year for each of the
     States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. A minimum
     allocation of $35,000 shall be awarded in each fiscal year for
     each Territory. Any unused or remaining funds shall be allotted
     to each State, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico on
     the basis of population.’’.
SEC. 302. CREATING HOPE THROUGH OUTREACH, OPTIONS, SERVICES,
            AND EDUCATION FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH.
    Subtitle L of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 is
amended by striking sections 41201 through 41204 (42 U.S.C.
14043c through 14043c–3) and inserting the following:
                               S. 47—32
‘‘SEC. 41201. CREATING HOPE THROUGH OUTREACH, OPTIONS, SERV-
               ICES, AND EDUCATION FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH
               (‘CHOOSE CHILDREN & YOUTH’).
     ‘‘(a) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—The Attorney General, working in
collaboration with the Secretary of Health and Human Services
and the Secretary of Education, shall award grants to enhance
the safety of youth and children who are victims of, or exposed
to, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or
sex trafficking and prevent future violence.
     ‘‘(b) PROGRAM PURPOSES.—Funds provided under this section
may be used for the following program purpose areas:
           ‘‘(1) SERVICES TO ADVOCATE FOR AND RESPOND TO YOUTH.—
     To develop, expand, and strengthen victim-centered interven-
     tions and services that target youth who are victims of domestic
     violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, and sex traf-
     ficking. Services may include victim services, counseling,
     advocacy, mentoring, educational support, transportation, legal
     assistance in civil, criminal and administrative matters, such
     as family law cases, housing cases, child welfare proceedings,
     campus administrative proceedings, and civil protection order
     proceedings, population-specific services, and other activities
     that support youth in finding safety, stability, and justice and
     in addressing the emotional, cognitive, and physical effects
     of trauma. Funds may be used to—
                 ‘‘(A) assess and analyze currently available services
           for youth victims of domestic violence, dating violence,
           sexual assault, stalking, and sex trafficking, determining
           relevant barriers to such services in a particular locality,
           and developing a community protocol to address such prob-
           lems collaboratively;
                 ‘‘(B) develop and implement policies, practices, and
           procedures to effectively respond to domestic violence,
           dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or sex trafficking
           against youth; or
                 ‘‘(C) provide technical assistance and training to
           enhance the ability of school personnel, victim service pro-
           viders, child protective service workers, staff of law enforce-
           ment agencies, prosecutors, court personnel, individuals
           who work in after school programs, medical personnel,
           social workers, mental health personnel, and workers in
           other programs that serve children and youth to improve
           their ability to appropriately respond to the needs of chil-
           dren and youth who are victims of domestic violence, dating
           violence, sexual assault, stalking, and sex trafficking, and
           to properly refer such children, youth, and their families
           to appropriate services.
           ‘‘(2) SUPPORTING YOUTH THROUGH EDUCATION AND PROTEC-
     TION.—To enable middle schools, high schools, and institutions
     of higher education to—
                 ‘‘(A) provide training to school personnel, including
           healthcare providers and security personnel, on the needs
           of students who are victims of domestic violence, dating
           violence, sexual assault, stalking, or sex trafficking;
                 ‘‘(B) develop and implement prevention and interven-
           tion policies in middle and high schools, including appro-
           priate responses to, and identification and referral proce-
           dures for, students who are experiencing or perpetrating
                           S. 47—33

      domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking,
      or sex trafficking, and procedures for handling the require-
      ments of court protective orders issued to or against stu-
      dents;‘‘(C) provide support services for student victims of
      domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking,
      or sex trafficking, such as a resource person who is either
      on-site or on-call;
            ‘‘(D) implement developmentally appropriate edu-
      cational programming for students regarding domestic
      violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, and sex
      trafficking and the impact of such violence on youth; or
            ‘‘(E) develop strategies to increase identification, sup-
      port, referrals, and prevention programming for youth who
      are at high risk of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
      assault, stalking, or sex trafficking.
‘‘(c) ELIGIBLE APPLICANTS.—
      ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible to receive a grant under
this section, an entity shall be—
            ‘‘(A) a victim service provider, tribal nonprofit, or popu-
      lation-specific or community-based organization with a
      demonstrated history of effective work addressing the needs
      of youth who are, including runaway or homeless youth
      affected by, victims of domestic violence, dating violence,
      sexual assault, stalking, or sex trafficking;
            ‘‘(B) a victim service provider that is partnered with
      an entity that has a demonstrated history of effective work
      addressing the needs of youth; or
            ‘‘(C) a public, charter, tribal, or nationally accredited
      private middle or high school, a school administered by
      the Department of Defense under section 2164 of title
      10, United States Code or section 1402 of the Defense
      Dependents’ Education Act of 1978, a group of schools,
      a school district, or an institution of higher education.
      ‘‘(2) PARTNERSHIPS.—
            ‘‘(A) EDUCATION.—To be eligible to receive a grant for
      the purposes described in subsection (b)(2), an entity
      described in paragraph (1) shall be partnered with a public,
      charter, tribal, or nationally accredited private middle or
      high school, a school administered by the Department of
      Defense under section 2164 of title 10, United States Code
      or section 1402 of the Defense Dependents’ Education Act
      of 1978, a group of schools, a school district, or an institu-
      tion of higher education.
            ‘‘(B) OTHER PARTNERSHIPS.—All applicants under this
      section are encouraged to work in partnership with
      organizations and agencies that work with the relevant
      population. Such entities may include—
                  ‘‘(i) a State, tribe, unit of local government, or
            territory;
                  ‘‘(ii) a population specific or community-based
            organization;
                  ‘‘(iii) batterer intervention programs or sex
            offender treatment programs with specialized knowl-
            edge and experience working with youth offenders; or
                               S. 47—34

                       ‘‘(iv) any other agencies or nonprofit, nongovern-
                  mental organizations with the capacity to provide effec-
                  tive assistance to the adult, youth, and child victims
                  served by the partnership.
      ‘‘(d) GRANTEE REQUIREMENTS.—Applicants for grants under this
section shall establish and implement policies, practices, and proce-
dures that—
            ‘‘(1) require and include appropriate referral systems for
      child and youth victims;
            ‘‘(2) protect the confidentiality and privacy of child and
      youth victim information, particularly in the context of parental
      or third party involvement and consent, mandatory reporting
      duties, and working with other service providers all with pri-
      ority on victim safety and autonomy; and
            ‘‘(3) ensure that all individuals providing intervention or
      prevention programming to children or youth through a pro-
      gram funded under this section have completed, or will com-
      plete, sufficient training in connection with domestic violence,
      dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, and sex trafficking.
      ‘‘(e) DEFINITIONS AND GRANT CONDITIONS.—In this section, the
definitions and grant conditions provided for in section 40002 shall
apply.‘‘(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There is authorized
to be appropriated to carry out this section, $15,000,000 for each
of fiscal years 2014 through 2018.
      ‘‘(g) ALLOTMENT.—
            ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less than 50 percent of the total
      amount appropriated under this section for each fiscal year
      shall be used for the purposes described in subsection (b)(1).
            ‘‘(2) INDIAN TRIBES.—Not less than 10 percent of the total
      amount appropriated under this section for each fiscal year
      shall be made available for grants under the program author-
      ized by section 2015 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
      Streets Act of 1968. The requirements of this section shall
      not apply to funds allocated under this paragraph.
      ‘‘(h) PRIORITY.—The Attorney General shall prioritize grant
applications under this section that coordinate with prevention
programs in the community.’’.
SEC. 303. GRANTS TO COMBAT VIOLENT CRIMES ON CAMPUSES.
    Section 304 of the Violence Against Women and Department
of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14045b) is
amended—
        (1) in subsection (a)—
             (A) in paragraph (1)—
                  (i) by striking ‘‘stalking on campuses, and’’ and
             inserting ‘‘stalking on campuses,’’;
                  (ii) by striking ‘‘crimes against women on’’ and
             inserting ‘‘crimes on’’; and
                  (iii) by inserting ‘‘, and to develop and strengthen
             prevention education and awareness programs’’ before
             the period; and
             (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘$500,000’’ and
        inserting ‘‘$300,000’’;
        (2) in subsection (b)—
             (A) in paragraph (2)—
                            S. 47—35

         and   (i) by inserting ‘‘, strengthen,’’ after ‘‘To develop’’;
                (ii) by inserting ‘‘including the use of technology
          to commit these crimes,’’ after ‘‘sexual assault and
          stalking,’’;
          (B) in paragraph (4)—
                (i) by inserting ‘‘and population specific services’’
          after ‘‘strengthen victim services programs’’;
                (ii) by striking ‘‘entities carrying out’’ and all that
          follows through ‘‘stalking victim services programs’’
          and inserting ‘‘victim service providers’’; and
                (iii) by inserting ‘‘, regardless of whether the serv-
          ices are provided by the institution or in coordination
          with community victim service providers’’ before the
          period at the end; and
          (C) by adding at the end the following:
    ‘‘(9) To develop or adapt and provide developmental, cul-
turally appropriate, and linguistically accessible print or elec-
tronic materials to address both prevention and intervention
in domestic violence, dating violence, sexual violence, and
stalking.
    ‘‘(10) To develop or adapt population specific strategies
and projects for victims of domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, and stalking from underserved populations on
campus.’’;
    (3) in subsection (c)—
          (A) in paragraph (2)—
                (i) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘any non-
          profit’’ and all that follows through ‘‘victim services
          programs’’ and inserting ‘‘victim service providers’’;
                (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) through
          (F) as subparagraphs (E) through (G), respectively;
          and   (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (C), the fol-
          lowing:
          ‘‘(D) describe how underserved populations in the cam-
    pus community will be adequately served, including the
    provision of relevant population specific services;’’; and
          (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘2007 through 2011’’
    and inserting ‘‘2014 through 2018’’;
    (4) in subsection (d)—
    and   (A) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);
          (B) by inserting after paragraph (2), the following:
    ‘‘(3) GRANTEE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.—Each grantee
shall comply with the following minimum requirements during
the grant period:
          ‘‘(A) The grantee shall create a coordinated community
    response including both organizations external to the
    institution and relevant divisions of the institution.
          ‘‘(B) The grantee shall establish a mandatory preven-
    tion and education program on domestic violence, dating
    violence, sexual assault, and stalking for all incoming stu-
    dents.‘‘(C) The grantee shall train all campus law enforce-
    ment to respond effectively to domestic violence, dating
    violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
                                 S. 47—36

              ‘‘(D) The grantee shall train all members of campus
         disciplinary boards to respond effectively to situations
         involving domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
         or stalking.’’; and
         (5) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘there are’’ and all that
    follows through the period and inserting ‘‘there is authorized
    to be appropriated $12,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014
    through 2018.’’.
SEC. 304. CAMPUS SEXUAL VIOLENCE, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING
           VIOLENCE, AND STALKING EDUCATION AND PREVENTION.
     (a) IN GENERAL.—Section 485(f) of the Higher Education Act
of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1092(f)) is amended—
          (1) in paragraph (1)—
                (A) in subparagraph (C)(iii), by striking the period
          at the end and inserting ‘‘, when the victim of such crime
          elects or is unable to make such a report.’’; and
                (B) in subparagraph (F)—
                       (i) in clause (i)(VIII), by striking ‘‘and’’ after the
                semicolon;
                       (ii) in clause (ii)—
                              (I) by striking ‘‘sexual orientation’’ and
                       inserting ‘‘ national origin, sexual orientation,
                       gender identity,’’; and
                              (II) by striking the period and inserting ‘‘;
                       and’’; and
                       (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                       ‘‘(iii) of domestic violence, dating violence, and
                stalking incidents that were reported to campus secu-
                rity authorities or local police agencies.’’;
          (2) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘, that withholds the
     names of victims as confidential,’’ after ‘‘that is timely’’;
          (3) in paragraph (6)(A)—
                (A) by redesignating clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) as clauses
          (ii), (iii), and (iv), respectively;
                (B) by inserting before clause (ii), as redesignated by
          subparagraph (A), the following:
          ‘‘(i) The terms ‘dating violence’, ‘domestic violence’, and
     ‘stalking’ have the meaning given such terms in section
     40002(a) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C.
     13925(a)).’’; and
                (C) by inserting after clause (iv), as redesignated by
          subparagraph (A), the following:
          ‘‘(v) The term ‘sexual assault’ means an offense classified
     as a forcible or nonforcible sex offense under the uniform crime
     reporting system of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.’’;
          (4) in paragraph (7)—
                (A) by striking ‘‘paragraph (1)(F)’’ and inserting
          ‘‘clauses (i) and (ii) of paragraph (1)(F)’’; and
                (B) by inserting after ‘‘Hate Crime Statistics Act.’’ the
          following: ‘‘For the offenses of domestic violence, dating
          violence, and stalking, such statistics shall be compiled
          in accordance with the definitions used in section 40002(a)
          of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C.
          13925(a)).’’;
          (5) by striking paragraph (8) and inserting the following:
                                 S. 47—37

     ‘‘(8)(A) Each institution of higher education participating in
any program under this title and title IV of the Economic Oppor-
tunity Act of 1964, other than a foreign institution of higher edu-
cation, shall develop and distribute as part of the report described
in paragraph (1) a statement of policy regarding—
           ‘‘(i) such institution’s programs to prevent domestic
     violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; and
           ‘‘(ii) the procedures that such institution will follow once
     an incident of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
     or stalking has been reported, including a statement of the
     standard of evidence that will be used during any institutional
     conduct proceeding arising from such a report.
     ‘‘(B) The policy described in subparagraph (A) shall address
the following areas:
           ‘‘(i) Education programs to promote the awareness of rape,
     acquaintance rape, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
     assault, and stalking, which shall include—
                  ‘‘(I) primary prevention and awareness programs for
           all incoming students and new employees, which shall
           include—   ‘‘(aa) a statement that the institution of higher
                  education prohibits the offenses of domestic violence,
                  dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;
                        ‘‘(bb) the definition of domestic violence, dating
                  violence, sexual assault, and stalking in the applicable
                  jurisdiction;
                        ‘‘(cc) the definition of consent, in reference to
                  sexual activity, in the applicable jurisdiction;
                        ‘‘(dd) safe and positive options for bystander inter-
                  vention that may be carried out by an individual to
                  prevent harm or intervene when there is a risk of
                  domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
                  stalking against a person other than such individual;
                        ‘‘(ee) information on risk reduction to recognize
                  warning signs of abusive behavior and how to avoid
                  potential attacks; and
                        ‘‘(ff) the information described in clauses (ii)
                  through (vii); and
                  ‘‘(II) ongoing prevention and awareness campaigns for
           students and faculty, including information described in
           items (aa) through (ff) of subclause (I).
           ‘‘(ii) Possible sanctions or protective measures that such
     institution may impose following a final determination of an
     institutional disciplinary procedure regarding rape, acquaint-
     ance rape, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
     or stalking.
           ‘‘(iii) Procedures victims should follow if a sex offense,
     domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking
     has occurred, including information in writing about—
                  ‘‘(I) the importance of preserving evidence as may be
           necessary to the proof of criminal domestic violence, dating
           violence, sexual assault, or stalking, or in obtaining a
           protection order;
                  ‘‘(II) to whom the alleged offense should be reported;
                  ‘‘(III) options regarding law enforcement and campus
           authorities, including notification of the victim’s option to—
                                S. 47—38

                      ‘‘(aa) notify proper law enforcement authorities,
               including on-campus and local police;
                      ‘‘(bb) be assisted by campus authorities in notifying
               law enforcement authorities if the victim so chooses;
               and    ‘‘(cc) decline to notify such authorities; and
               ‘‘(IV) where applicable, the rights of victims and the
         institution’s responsibilities regarding orders of protection,
         no contact orders, restraining orders, or similar lawful
         orders issued by a criminal, civil, or tribal court.
         ‘‘(iv) Procedures for institutional disciplinary action in cases
    of alleged domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
    or stalking, which shall include a clear statement that—
               ‘‘(I) such proceedings shall—
                      ‘‘(aa) provide a prompt, fair, and impartial inves-
               tigation and resolution; and
                      ‘‘(bb) be conducted by officials who receive annual
               training on the issues related to domestic violence,
               dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking and how
               to conduct an investigation and hearing process that
               protects the safety of victims and promotes account-
               ability;
               ‘‘(II) the accuser and the accused are entitled to the
         same opportunities to have others present during an
         institutional disciplinary proceeding, including the oppor-
         tunity to be accompanied to any related meeting or pro-
         ceeding by an advisor of their choice; and
               ‘‘(III) both the accuser and the accused shall be simulta-
         neously informed, in writing, of—
                      ‘‘(aa) the outcome of any institutional disciplinary
               proceeding that arises from an allegation of domestic
               violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking;
                      ‘‘(bb) the institution’s procedures for the accused
               and the victim to appeal the results of the institutional
               disciplinary proceeding;
                      ‘‘(cc) of any change to the results that occurs prior
               to the time that such results become final; and
                      ‘‘(dd) when such results become final.
         ‘‘(v) Information about how the institution will protect the
    confidentiality of victims, including how publicly-available
    recordkeeping will be accomplished without the inclusion of
    identifying information about the victim, to the extent permis-
    sible by law.
         ‘‘(vi) Written notification of students and employees about
    existing counseling, health, mental health, victim advocacy,
    legal assistance, and other services available for victims both
    on-campus and in the community.
         ‘‘(vii) Written notification of victims about options for, and
    available assistance in, changing academic, living, transpor-
    tation, and working situations, if so requested by the victim
    and if such accommodations are reasonably available, regard-
    less of whether the victim chooses to report the crime to campus
    police or local law enforcement.
    ‘‘(C) A student or employee who reports to an institution of
higher education that the student or employee has been a victim
of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking,
whether the offense occurred on or off campus, shall be provided
                              S. 47—39

with a written explanation of the student or employee’s rights
and options, as described in clauses (ii) through (vii) of subpara-
graph (B).’’;
          (6) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and
     inserting ‘‘The Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney
     General of the United States,’’;
          (7) by striking paragraph (16) and inserting the following:
     ‘‘(16)(A) The Secretary shall seek the advice and counsel of
the Attorney General of the United States concerning the develop-
ment, and dissemination to institutions of higher education, of
best practices information about campus safety and emergencies.
     ‘‘(B) The Secretary shall seek the advice and counsel of the
Attorney General of the United States and the Secretary of Health
and Human Services concerning the development, and dissemina-
tion to institutions of higher education, of best practices information
about preventing and responding to incidents of domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, including elements
of institutional policies that have proven successful based on evi-
dence-based outcome measurements.’’; and
          (8) by striking paragraph (17) and inserting the following:
     ‘‘(17) No officer, employee, or agent of an institution partici-
pating in any program under this title shall retaliate, intimidate,
threaten, coerce, or otherwise discriminate against any individual
for exercising their rights or responsibilities under any provision
of this subsection.’’.
     (b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this section
shall take effect with respect to the annual security report under
section 485(f)(1) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1092(f)(1)) prepared by an institution of higher education 1 calendar
year after the date of enactment of this Act, and each subsequent
calendar year.

     TITLE IV—VIOLENCE REDUCTION
              PRACTICES
SEC. 401. STUDY CONDUCTED BY THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CON-
           TROL AND PREVENTION.
    Section 402(c) of the Violence Against Women and Department
of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 280b–4(c)) is
amended by striking ‘‘$2,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2007
through 2011’’ and inserting ‘‘$1,000,000 for each of the fiscal years
2014 through 2018’’.
SEC. 402. SAVING MONEY AND REDUCING TRAGEDIES THROUGH
          PREVENTION GRANTS.
     (a) SMART PREVENTION.—Section 41303 of the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043d–2) is amended
to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 41303. SAVING MONEY AND REDUCING TRAGEDIES THROUGH
              PREVENTION (SMART PREVENTION).
    ‘‘(a) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—The Attorney General, in consulta-
tion with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the
Secretary of Education, is authorized to award grants for the pur-
pose of preventing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
and stalking by taking a comprehensive approach that focuses
                               S. 47—40

on youth, children exposed to violence, and men as leaders and
influencers of social norms.
     ‘‘(b) USE OF FUNDS.—Funds provided under this section may
be used for the following purposes:
           ‘‘(1) TEEN DATING VIOLENCE AWARENESS AND PREVENTION.—
     To develop, maintain, or enhance programs that change atti-
     tudes and behaviors around the acceptability of domestic
     violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking and pro-
     vide education and skills training to young individuals and
     individuals who influence young individuals. The prevention
     program may use evidence-based, evidence-informed, or innova-
     tive strategies and practices focused on youth. Such a program
     should include—
                 ‘‘(A) age and developmentally-appropriate education on
           domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking,
           and sexual coercion, as well as healthy relationship skills,
           in school, in the community, or in health care settings;
                 ‘‘(B) community-based collaboration and training for
           those with influence on youth, such as parents, teachers,
           coaches, healthcare providers, faith-leaders, older teens,
           and mentors;
                 ‘‘(C) education and outreach to change environmental
           factors contributing to domestic violence, dating violence,
           sexual assault, and stalking; and
                 ‘‘(D) policy development targeted to prevention,
           including school-based policies and protocols.
           ‘‘(2) CHILDREN EXPOSED TO VIOLENCE AND ABUSE.—To
     develop, maintain or enhance programs designed to prevent
     future incidents of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
     assault, and stalking by preventing, reducing and responding
     to children’s exposure to violence in the home. Such programs
     may include—
                 ‘‘(A) providing services for children exposed to domestic
           violence, dating violence, sexual assault or stalking,
           including direct counseling or advocacy, and support for
           the non-abusing parent; and
                 ‘‘(B) training and coordination for educational, after-
           school, and childcare programs on how to safely and con-
           fidentially identify children and families experiencing
           domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
           stalking and properly refer children exposed and their fami-
           lies to services and violence prevention programs.
           ‘‘(3) ENGAGING MEN AS LEADERS AND ROLE MODELS.—To
     develop, maintain or enhance programs that work with men
     to prevent domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
     and stalking by helping men to serve as role models and social
     influencers of other men and youth at the individual, school,
     community or statewide levels.
     ‘‘(c) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—To be eligible to receive a grant under
this section, an entity shall be—
           ‘‘(1) a victim service provider, community-based organiza-
     tion, tribe or tribal organization, or other non-profit, nongovern-
     mental organization that has a history of effective work pre-
     venting domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
     stalking and expertise in the specific area for which they are
     applying for funds; or
                           S. 47—41

      ‘‘(2) a partnership between a victim service provider,
community-based organization, tribe or tribal organization, or
other non-profit, nongovernmental organization that has a his-
tory of effective work preventing domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, or stalking and at least one of the
following that has expertise in serving children exposed to
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking,
youth domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
stalking prevention, or engaging men to prevent domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking:
            ‘‘(A) A public, charter, tribal, or nationally accredited
      private middle or high school, a school administered by
      the Department of Defense under section 2164 of title
      10, United States Code or section 1402 of the Defense
      Dependents’ Education Act of 1978, a group of schools,
      or a school district.
            ‘‘(B) A local community-based organization, population-
      specific organization, or faith-based organization that has
      established expertise in providing services to youth.
            ‘‘(C) A community-based organization, population-spe-
      cific organization, university or health care clinic, faith-
      based organization, or other non-profit, nongovernmental
      organization with a demonstrated history of effective work
      addressing the needs of children exposed to domestic
      violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
            ‘‘(D) A nonprofit, nongovernmental entity providing
      services for runaway or homeless youth affected by
      domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
      stalking.
            ‘‘(E) Healthcare entities eligible for reimbursement
      under title XVIII of the Social Security Act, including pro-
      viders that target the special needs of children and youth.
            ‘‘(F) Any other agencies, population-specific organiza-
      tions, or nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations with
      the capacity to provide necessary expertise to meet the
      goals of the program; or
      ‘‘(3) a public, charter, tribal, or nationally accredited private
middle or high school, a school administered by the Department
of Defense under section 2164 of title 10, United States Code
or section 1402 of the Defense Dependents’ Education Act of
1978, a group of schools, a school district, or an institution
of higher education.
‘‘(d) GRANTEE REQUIREMENTS.—
      ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Applicants for grants under this section
shall prepare and submit to the Director an application at
such time, in such manner, and containing such information
as the Director may require that demonstrates the capacity
of the applicant and partnering organizations to undertake
the project.
      ‘‘(2) POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.—Applicants under this sec-
tion shall establish and implement policies, practices, and proce-
dures that—
            ‘‘(A) include appropriate referral systems to direct any
      victim identified during program activities to highly quali-
      fied follow-up care;
            ‘‘(B) protect the confidentiality and privacy of adult
      and youth victim information, particularly in the context
                              S. 47—42

           of parental or third party involvement and consent, manda-
           tory reporting duties, and working with other service pro-
           viders;
                 ‘‘(C) ensure that all individuals providing prevention
           programming through a program funded under this section
           have completed or will complete sufficient training in
           connection with domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
           assault or stalking; and
                 ‘‘(D) document how prevention programs are coordi-
           nated with service programs in the community.
           ‘‘(3) PREFERENCE.—In selecting grant recipients under this
     section, the Attorney General shall give preference to applicants
     that—     ‘‘(A) include outcome-based evaluation; and
                 ‘‘(B) identify any other community, school, or State-
           based efforts that are working on domestic violence, dating
           violence, sexual assault, or stalking prevention and explain
           how the grantee or partnership will add value, coordinate
           with other programs, and not duplicate existing efforts.
     ‘‘(e) DEFINITIONS AND GRANT CONDITIONS.—In this section, the
definitions and grant conditions provided for in section 40002 shall
apply.
     ‘‘(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There is authorized
to be appropriated to carry out this section, $15,000,000 for each
of fiscal years 2014 through 2018. Amounts appropriated under
this section may only be used for programs and activities described
under this section.
     ‘‘(g) ALLOTMENT.—
           ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less than 25 percent of the total
     amounts appropriated under this section in each fiscal year
     shall be used for each set of purposes described in paragraphs
     (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (b).
           ‘‘(2) INDIAN TRIBES.—Not less than 10 percent of the total
     amounts appropriated under this section in each fiscal year
     shall be made available for grants to Indian tribes or tribal
     organizations. If an insufficient number of applications are
     received from Indian tribes or tribal organizations, such funds
     shall be allotted to other population-specific programs.’’.
     (b) REPEALS.—The following provisions are repealed:
           (1) Sections 41304 and 41305 of the Violence Against
     Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043d–3 and 14043d–4).
           (2) Section 403 of the Violence Against Women and Depart-
     ment of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14045c).
                                  S. 47—43

TITLE    V—STRENGTHENING      THE
  HEALTHCARE SYSTEM’S RESPONSE
  TO DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VI-
  OLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND
  STALKING
SEC.     501.   CONSOLIDATION OF GRANTS TO STRENGTHEN THE
                HEALTHCARE   SYSTEM’S  RESPONSE  TO   DOMESTIC
                VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND
                STALKING.
    (a) GRANTS.—Section 399P of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 280g–4) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 399P. GRANTS TO STRENGTHEN THE HEALTHCARE SYSTEM’S
             RESPONSE TO DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE,
             SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND STALKING.
       ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall award grants for—
             ‘‘(1) the development or enhancement and implementation
       of interdisciplinary training for health professionals, public
       health staff, and allied health professionals;
             ‘‘(2) the development or enhancement and implementation
       of education programs for medical, nursing, dental, and other
       health profession students and residents to prevent and respond
       to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
       stalking; and
             ‘‘(3) the development or enhancement and implementation
       of comprehensive statewide strategies to improve the response
       of clinics, public health facilities, hospitals, and other health
       settings (including behavioral and mental health programs)
       to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
       stalking.
       ‘‘(b) USE OF FUNDS.—
             ‘‘(1) REQUIRED USES.—Amounts provided under a grant
       under this section shall be used to—
                   ‘‘(A) fund interdisciplinary training and education pro-
             grams under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) that—
                         ‘‘(i) are designed to train medical, psychology,
                   dental, social work, nursing, and other health profes-
                   sion students, interns, residents, fellows, or current
                   health care providers to identify and provide health
                   care services (including mental or behavioral health
                   care services and referrals to appropriate community
                   services) to individuals who are or who have been
                   victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
                   assault, or stalking; and
                         ‘‘(ii) plan and develop culturally competent clinical
                   training components for integration into approved
                   internship, residency, and fellowship training or con-
                   tinuing medical or other health education training that
                   address physical, mental, and behavioral health issues,
                   including protective factors, related to domestic
                   violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, and
                   other forms of violence and abuse, focus on reducing
                   health disparities and preventing violence and abuse,
                       S. 47—44

      and include the primacy of victim safety and confiden-
      tiality;
      ‘‘(B) design and implement comprehensive strategies
to improve the response of the health care system to
domestic or sexual violence in clinical and public health
settings, hospitals, clinics, and other health settings
(including behavioral and mental health), under subsection
(a)(3) through—
            ‘‘(i) the implementation, dissemination, and
      evaluation of policies and procedures to guide health
      professionals and public health staff in identifying and
      responding to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
      assault, and stalking, including strategies to ensure
      that health information is maintained in a manner
      that protects the patient’s privacy and safety, and
      safely uses health information technology to improve
      documentation, identification, assessment, treatment,
      and follow-up care;
            ‘‘(ii) the development of on-site access to services
      to address the safety, medical, and mental health needs
      of patients by increasing the capacity of existing health
      care professionals and public health staff to address
      domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
      stalking, or by contracting with or hiring domestic
      or sexual assault advocates to provide such services
      or to model other services appropriate to the geographic
      and cultural needs of a site;
            ‘‘(iii) the development of measures and methods
      for the evaluation of the practice of identification, inter-
      vention, and documentation regarding victims of
      domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
      stalking, including the development and testing of
      quality improvement measurements, in accordance
      with the multi-stakeholder and quality measurement
      processes established under paragraphs (7) and (8) of
      section 1890(b) and section 1890A of the Social Security
      Act (42 U.S.C. 1395aaa(b)(7) and (8); 42 U.S.C. 1890A);
      and   ‘‘(iv) the provision of training and follow-up tech-
      nical assistance to health care professionals, and public
      health staff, and allied health professionals to identify,
      assess, treat, and refer clients who are victims of
      domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
      stalking, including using tools and training materials
      already developed.
‘‘(2) PERMISSIBLE USES.—
      ‘‘(A) CHILD AND ELDER ABUSE.—To the extent consistent
with the purpose of this section, a grantee may use amounts
received under this section to address, as part of a com-
prehensive programmatic approach implemented under the
grant, issues relating to child or elder abuse.
      ‘‘(B) RURAL AREAS.—Grants funded under paragraphs
(1) and (2) of subsection (a) may be used to offer to rural
areas community-based training opportunities, which may
include the use of distance learning networks and other
available technologies needed to reach isolated rural areas,
for medical, nursing, and other health profession students
                            S. 47—45

      and residents on domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
      assault, stalking, and, as appropriate, other forms of
      violence and abuse.
            ‘‘(C) OTHER USES.—Grants funded under subsection
      (a)(3) may be used for—
                  ‘‘(i) the development of training modules and poli-
            cies that address the overlap of child abuse, domestic
            violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking
            and elder abuse, as well as childhood exposure to
            domestic and sexual violence;
                  ‘‘(ii) the development, expansion, and implementa-
            tion of sexual assault forensic medical examination
            or sexual assault nurse examiner programs;
                  ‘‘(iii) the inclusion of the health effects of lifetime
            exposure to violence and abuse as well as related
            protective factors and behavioral risk factors in health
            professional training schools including medical, dental,
            nursing, social work, and mental and behavioral health
            curricula, and allied health service training courses;
            or    ‘‘(iv) the integration of knowledge of domestic
            violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking
            into health care accreditation and professional
            licensing examinations, such as medical, dental, social
            work, and nursing boards, and where appropriate,
            other allied health exams.
‘‘(c) REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTEES.—
      ‘‘(1) CONFIDENTIALITY AND SAFETY.—
            ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Grantees under this section shall
      ensure that all programs developed with grant funds
      address issues of confidentiality and patient safety and
      comply with applicable confidentiality and nondisclosure
      requirements under section 40002(b)(2) of the Violence
      Against Women Act of 1994 and the Family Violence
      Prevention and Services Act, and that faculty and staff
      associated with delivering educational components are fully
      trained in procedures that will protect the immediate and
      ongoing security and confidentiality of the patients, patient
      records, and staff. Such grantees shall consult entities with
      demonstrated expertise in the confidentiality and safety
      needs of victims of domestic violence, dating violence,
      sexual assault, and stalking on the development and ade-
      quacy of confidentially and security procedures, and provide
      documentation of such consultation.
            ‘‘(B) ADVANCE NOTICE OF INFORMATION DISCLOSURE.—
      Grantees under this section shall provide to patients
      advance notice about any circumstances under which
      information may be disclosed, such as mandatory reporting
      laws, and shall give patients the option to receive informa-
      tion and referrals without affirmatively disclosing abuse.
      ‘‘(2) LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—A grantee
shall use not more than 10 percent of the amounts received
under a grant under this section for administrative expenses.
      ‘‘(3) APPLICATION.—
            ‘‘(A) PREFERENCE.—In selecting grant recipients under
      this section, the Secretary shall give preference to
                       S. 47—46

applicants based on the strength of their evaluation strate-
gies, with priority given to outcome based evaluations.
     ‘‘(B) SUBSECTION (A)(1) AND (2) GRANTEES.—Applications
for grants under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a)
shall include—
           ‘‘(i) documentation that the applicant represents
     a team of entities working collaboratively to strengthen
     the response of the health care system to domestic
     violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking,
     and which includes at least one of each of—
                  ‘‘(I) an accredited school of allopathic or osteo-
           pathic medicine, psychology, nursing, dentistry,
           social work, or other health field;
                  ‘‘(II) a health care facility or system; or
                  ‘‘(III) a government or nonprofit entity with
           a history of effective work in the fields of domestic
           violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
           stalking; and
           ‘‘(ii) strategies for the dissemination and sharing
     of curricula and other educational materials developed
     under the grant, if any, with other interested health
     professions schools and national resource repositories
     for materials on domestic violence, dating violence,
     sexual assault, and stalking.
     ‘‘(C) SUBSECTION (A)(3) GRANTEES.—An entity desiring
a grant under subsection (a)(3) shall submit an application
to the Secretary at such time, in such a manner, and
containing such information and assurances as the Sec-
retary may require, including—
           ‘‘(i) documentation that all training, education,
     screening, assessment, services, treatment, and any
     other approach to patient care will be informed by
     an understanding of violence and abuse victimization
     and trauma-specific approaches that will be integrated
     into prevention, intervention, and treatment activities;
           ‘‘(ii) strategies for the development and
     implementation of policies to prevent and address
     domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
     stalking over the lifespan in health care settings;
           ‘‘(iii) a plan for consulting with State and tribal
     domestic violence or sexual assault coalitions, national
     nonprofit victim advocacy organizations, State or tribal
     law enforcement task forces (where appropriate), and
     population specific organizations with demonstrated
     expertise in domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
     assault, or stalking;
           ‘‘(iv) with respect to an application for a grant
     under which the grantee will have contact with
     patients, a plan, developed in collaboration with local
     victim service providers, to respond appropriately to
     and make correct referrals for individuals who disclose
     that they are victims of domestic violence, dating
     violence, sexual assault, stalking, or other types of
     violence, and documentation provided by the grantee
     of an ongoing collaborative relationship with a local
     victim service provider; and
                           S. 47—47

                  ‘‘(v) with respect to an application for a grant
            proposing to fund a program described in subsection
            (b)(2)(C)(ii), a certification that any sexual assault
            forensic medical examination and sexual assault nurse
            examiner programs supported with such grant funds
            will adhere to the guidelines set forth by the Attorney
            General.
‘‘(d) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—
      ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible to receive funding under
paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a), an entity shall be—
            ‘‘(A) a nonprofit organization with a history of effective
      work in the field of training health professionals with an
      understanding of, and clinical skills pertinent to, domestic
      violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, and
      lifetime exposure to violence and abuse;
            ‘‘(B) an accredited school of allopathic or osteopathic
      medicine, psychology, nursing, dentistry, social work, or
      allied health;
            ‘‘(C) a health care provider membership or professional
      organization, or a health care system; or
            ‘‘(D) a State, tribal, territorial, or local entity.
      ‘‘(2) SUBSECTION (A)(3) GRANTEES.—To be eligible to receive
funding under subsection (a)(3), an entity shall be—
            ‘‘(A) a State department (or other division) of health,
      a State, tribal, or territorial domestic violence or sexual
      assault coalition or victim service provider, or any other
      nonprofit, nongovernmental organization with a history of
      effective work in the fields of domestic violence, dating
      violence, sexual assault, or stalking, and health care,
      including physical or mental health care; or
            ‘‘(B) a local victim service provider, a local department
      (or other division) of health, a local health clinic, hospital,
      or health system, or any other community-based organiza-
      tion with a history of effective work in the field of domestic
      violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking and
      health care, including physical or mental health care.
‘‘(e) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—
      ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the funds made available to carry
out this section for any fiscal year, the Secretary may make
grants or enter into contracts to provide technical assistance
with respect to the planning, development, and operation of
any program, activity or service carried out pursuant to this
section. Not more than 8 percent of the funds appropriated
under this section in each fiscal year may be used to fund
technical assistance under this subsection.
      ‘‘(2) AVAILABILITY OF MATERIALS.—The Secretary shall
make publicly available materials developed by grantees under
this section, including materials on training, best practices,
and research and evaluation.
      ‘‘(3) REPORTING.—The Secretary shall publish a biennial
report on—‘‘(A) the distribution of funds under this section; and
      funds.‘‘(B) the programs and activities supported by such
‘‘(f) RESEARCH AND EVALUATION.—
      ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the funds made available to carry
out this section for any fiscal year, the Secretary may use
                                S. 47—48

      not more than 20 percent to make a grant or enter into a
      contract for research and evaluation of—
                  ‘‘(A) grants awarded under this section; and
                  ‘‘(B) other training for health professionals and effec-
            tive interventions in the health care setting that prevent
            domestic violence, dating violence, and sexual assault
            across the lifespan, prevent the health effects of such
            violence, and improve the safety and health of individuals
            who are currently being victimized.
            ‘‘(2) RESEARCH.—Research authorized in paragraph (1) may
      include—  ‘‘(A) research on the effects of domestic violence, dating
            violence, sexual assault, and childhood exposure to
            domestic, dating or sexual violence on health behaviors,
            health conditions, and health status of individuals, families,
            and populations, including underserved populations;
                  ‘‘(B) research to determine effective health care inter-
            ventions to respond to and prevent domestic violence,
            dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;
                  ‘‘(C) research on the impact of domestic, dating and
            sexual violence, childhood exposure to such violence, and
            stalking on the health care system, health care utilization,
            health care costs, and health status; and
                  ‘‘(D) research on the impact of adverse childhood
            experiences on adult experience with domestic violence,
            dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, and adult health
            outcomes, including how to reduce or prevent the impact
            of adverse childhood experiences through the health care
            setting.
      ‘‘(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There is authorized
to be appropriated to carry out this section, $10,000,000 for each
of fiscal years 2014 through 2018.
      ‘‘(h) DEFINITIONS.—Except as otherwise provided herein, the
definitions provided for in section 40002 of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 shall apply to this section.’’.
      (b) REPEALS.—The following provisions are repealed:
            (1) Section 40297 of the Violence Against Women Act of
      1994 (42 U.S.C. 13973).
            (2) Section 758 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
      294h).

TITLE VI—SAFE HOMES FOR VICTIMS
  OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VI-
  OLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND
  STALKING
SEC.   601.   HOUSING PROTECTIONS FOR VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC
              VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND
              STALKING.
    (a) AMENDMENT.—Subtitle N of the Violence Against Women
Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043e et seq.) is amended—
         (1) by inserting after the subtitle heading the following:
                               S. 47—49

              ‘‘CHAPTER 1—GRANT PROGRAMS’’;
         (2) in section 41402 (42 U.S.C. 14043e–1),      in the matter
    preceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘subtitle’’    and inserting
    ‘‘chapter’’;
         (3) in section 41403 (42 U.S.C. 14043e–2),      in the matter
    preceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘subtitle’’    and inserting
    ‘‘chapter’’; and
         (4) by adding at the end the following:

               ‘‘CHAPTER 2—HOUSING RIGHTS
‘‘SEC. 41411. HOUSING PROTECTIONS FOR VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC
              VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND
              STALKING.
   ‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this chapter:
         ‘‘(1) AFFILIATED INDIVIDUAL.—The term ‘affiliated indi-
   vidual’ means, with respect to an individual—
               ‘‘(A) a spouse, parent, brother, sister, or child of that
         individual, or an individual to whom that individual stands
         in loco parentis; or
               ‘‘(B) any individual, tenant, or lawful occupant living
         in the household of that individual.
         ‘‘(2) APPROPRIATE AGENCY.—The term ‘appropriate agency’
   means, with respect to a covered housing program, the Execu-
   tive department (as defined in section 101 of title 5, United
   States Code) that carries out the covered housing program.
         ‘‘(3) COVERED HOUSING PROGRAM.—The term ‘covered
   housing program’ means—
               ‘‘(A) the program under section 202 of the Housing
         Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q);
               ‘‘(B) the program under section 811 of the Cranston-
         Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013);
               ‘‘(C) the program under subtitle D of title VIII of the
         Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42
         U.S.C. 12901 et seq.);
               ‘‘(D) the program under subtitle A of title IV of the
         McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11360
         et seq.);
               ‘‘(E) the program under subtitle A of title II of the
         Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42
         U.S.C. 12741 et seq.);
               ‘‘(F) the program under paragraph (3) of section 221(d)
         of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715l(d)) that bears
         interest at a rate determined under the proviso under
         paragraph (5) of such section 221(d);
               ‘‘(G) the program under section 236 of the National
         Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z–1);
               ‘‘(H) the programs under sections 6 and 8 of the United
         States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437d and 1437f);
               ‘‘(I) rural housing assistance provided under sections
         514, 515, 516, 533, and 538 of the Housing Act of 1949
         (42 U.S.C. 1484, 1485, 1486, 1490m, and 1490p–2); and
               ‘‘(J) the low income housing tax credit program under
         section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
   ‘‘(b) PROHIBITED BASIS FOR DENIAL OR TERMINATION OF ASSIST-
ANCE OR EVICTION.—      S. 47—50
     ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An applicant for or tenant of housing
assisted under a covered housing program may not be denied
admission to, denied assistance under, terminated from partici-
pation in, or evicted from the housing on the basis that the
applicant or tenant is or has been a victim of domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, if the applicant
or tenant otherwise qualifies for admission, assistance, partici-
pation, or occupancy.
     ‘‘(2) CONSTRUCTION OF LEASE TERMS.—An incident of actual
or threatened domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
or stalking shall not be construed as—
           ‘‘(A) a serious or repeated violation of a lease for
     housing assisted under a covered housing program by the
     victim or threatened victim of such incident; or
           ‘‘(B) good cause for terminating the assistance, tenancy,
     or occupancy rights to housing assisted under a covered
     housing program of the victim or threatened victim of
     such incident.
     ‘‘(3) TERMINATION ON THE BASIS OF CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.—
           ‘‘(A) DENIAL OF ASSISTANCE, TENANCY, AND OCCUPANCY
     RIGHTS PROHIBITED.—No person may deny assistance, ten-
     ancy, or occupancy rights to housing assisted under a cov-
     ered housing program to a tenant solely on the basis of
     criminal activity directly relating to domestic violence,
     dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking that is engaged
     in by a member of the household of the tenant or any
     guest or other person under the control of the tenant,
     if the tenant or an affiliated individual of the tenant is
     the victim or threatened victim of such domestic violence,
     dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
           ‘‘(B) BIFURCATION.—
                 ‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subparagraph
           (A), a public housing agency or owner or manager
           of housing assisted under a covered housing program
           may bifurcate a lease for the housing in order to evict,
           remove, or terminate assistance to any individual who
           is a tenant or lawful occupant of the housing and
           who engages in criminal activity directly relating to
           domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
           stalking against an affiliated individual or other indi-
           vidual, without evicting, removing, terminating assist-
           ance to, or otherwise penalizing a victim of such
           criminal activity who is also a tenant or lawful occu-
           pant of the housing.
                 ‘‘(ii) EFFECT OF EVICTION ON OTHER TENANTS.—
           If public housing agency or owner or manager of
           housing assisted under a covered housing program
           evicts, removes, or terminates assistance to an indi-
           vidual under clause (i), and the individual is the sole
           tenant eligible to receive assistance under a covered
           housing program, the public housing agency or owner
           or manager of housing assisted under the covered
           housing program shall provide any remaining tenant
           an opportunity to establish eligibility for the covered
           housing program. If a tenant described in the preceding
           sentence cannot establish eligibility, the public housing
                            S. 47—51

            agency or owner or manager of the housing shall pro-
            vide the tenant a reasonable time, as determined by
            the appropriate agency, to find new housing or to estab-
            lish eligibility for housing under another covered
            housing program.
            ‘‘(C) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in subpara-
      graph (A) shall be construed—
                 ‘‘(i) to limit the authority of a public housing
            agency or owner or manager of housing assisted under
            a covered housing program, when notified of a court
            order, to comply with a court order with respect to—
                        ‘‘(I) the rights of access to or control of prop-
                 erty, including civil protection orders issued to pro-
                 tect a victim of domestic violence, dating violence,
                 sexual assault, or stalking; or
                        ‘‘(II) the distribution or possession of property
                 among members of a household in a case;
                 ‘‘(ii) to limit any otherwise available authority of
            a public housing agency or owner or manager of
            housing assisted under a covered housing program to
            evict or terminate assistance to a tenant for any viola-
            tion of a lease not premised on the act of violence
            in question against the tenant or an affiliated person
            of the tenant, if the public housing agency or owner
            or manager does not subject an individual who is or
            has been a victim of domestic violence, dating violence,
            or stalking to a more demanding standard than other
            tenants in determining whether to evict or terminate;
                 ‘‘(iii) to limit the authority to terminate assistance
            to a tenant or evict a tenant from housing assisted
            under a covered housing program if a public housing
            agency or owner or manager of the housing can dem-
            onstrate that an actual and imminent threat to other
            tenants or individuals employed at or providing service
            to the property would be present if the assistance
            is not terminated or the tenant is not evicted; or
                 ‘‘(iv) to supersede any provision of any Federal,
            State, or local law that provides greater protection
            than this section for victims of domestic violence,
            dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
‘‘(c) DOCUMENTATION.—
      ‘‘(1) REQUEST FOR DOCUMENTATION.—If an applicant for,
or tenant of, housing assisted under a covered housing program
represents to a public housing agency or owner or manager
of the housing that the individual is entitled to protection
under subsection (b), the public housing agency or owner or
manager may request, in writing, that the applicant or tenant
submit to the public housing agency or owner or manager
a form of documentation described in paragraph (3).
      ‘‘(2) FAILURE TO PROVIDE CERTIFICATION.—
            ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If an applicant or tenant does not
      provide the documentation requested under paragraph (1)
      within 14 business days after the tenant receives a request
      in writing for such certification from a public housing
      agency or owner or manager of housing assisted under
      a covered housing program, nothing in this chapter may
                           S. 47—52

     be construed to limit the authority of the public housing
     agency or owner or manager to—
                 ‘‘(i) deny admission by the applicant or tenant
           to the covered program;
                 ‘‘(ii) deny assistance under the covered program
           to the applicant or tenant;
                 ‘‘(iii) terminate the participation of the applicant
           or tenant in the covered program; or
                 ‘‘(iv) evict the applicant, the tenant, or a lawful
           occupant that commits violations of a lease.
           ‘‘(B) EXTENSION.—A public housing agency or owner
     or manager of housing may extend the 14-day deadline
     under subparagraph (A) at its discretion.
     ‘‘(3) FORM OF DOCUMENTATION.—A form of documentation
described in this paragraph is—
           ‘‘(A) a certification form approved by the appropriate
     agency that—
                 ‘‘(i) states that an applicant or tenant is a victim
           of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
           or stalking;
                 ‘‘(ii) states that the incident of domestic violence,
           dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking that is the
           ground for protection under subsection (b) meets the
           requirements under subsection (b); and
                 ‘‘(iii) includes the name of the individual who com-
           mitted the domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
           assault, or stalking, if the name is known and safe
           to provide;
           ‘‘(B) a document that—
                 ‘‘(i) is signed by—
                        ‘‘(I) an employee, agent, or volunteer of a
                 victim service provider, an attorney, a medical
                 professional, or a mental health professional from
                 whom an applicant or tenant has sought assistance
                 relating to domestic violence, dating violence,
                 sexual assault, or stalking, or the effects of the
                 abuse; and
                        ‘‘(II) the applicant or tenant; and
                 ‘‘(ii) states under penalty of perjury that the indi-
           vidual described in clause (i)(I) believes that the
           incident of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
           assault, or stalking that is the ground for protection
           under subsection (b) meets the requirements under
           subsection (b);
           ‘‘(C) a record of a Federal, State, tribal, territorial,
     or local law enforcement agency, court, or administrative
     agency; or
           ‘‘(D) at the discretion of a public housing agency or
     owner or manager of housing assisted under a covered
     housing program, a statement or other evidence provided
     by an applicant or tenant.
     ‘‘(4) CONFIDENTIALITY.—Any information submitted to a
public housing agency or owner or manager under this sub-
section, including the fact that an individual is a victim of
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking
shall be maintained in confidence by the public housing agency
or owner or manager and may not be entered into any shared
                           S. 47—53

database or disclosed to any other entity or individual, except
to the extent that the disclosure is—
            ‘‘(A) requested or consented to by the individual in
      writing;
            ‘‘(B) required for use in an eviction proceeding under
      subsection (b); or
            ‘‘(C) otherwise required by applicable law.
      ‘‘(5) DOCUMENTATION NOT REQUIRED.—Nothing in this sub-
section shall be construed to require a public housing agency
or owner or manager of housing assisted under a covered
housing program to request that an individual submit docu-
mentation of the status of the individual as a victim of domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
      ‘‘(6) COMPLIANCE NOT SUFFICIENT TO CONSTITUTE EVIDENCE
OF UNREASONABLE ACT.—Compliance with subsection (b) by
a public housing agency or owner or manager of housing
assisted under a covered housing program based on documenta-
tion received under this subsection, shall not be sufficient to
constitute evidence of an unreasonable act or omission by the
public housing agency or owner or manager or an employee
or agent of the public housing agency or owner or manager.
Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to limit the
liability of a public housing agency or owner or manager of
housing assisted under a covered housing program for failure
to comply with subsection (b).
      ‘‘(7) RESPONSE TO CONFLICTING CERTIFICATION.—If a public
housing agency or owner or manager of housing assisted under
a covered housing program receives documentation under this
subsection that contains conflicting information, the public
housing agency or owner or manager may require an applicant
or tenant to submit third-party documentation, as described
in subparagraph (B), (C), or (D) of paragraph (3).
      ‘‘(8) PREEMPTION.—Nothing in this subsection shall be con-
strued to supersede any provision of any Federal, State, or
local law that provides greater protection than this subsection
for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
or stalking.
‘‘(d) NOTIFICATION.—
      ‘‘(1) DEVELOPMENT.—The Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development shall develop a notice of the rights of individuals
under this section, including the right to confidentiality and
the limits thereof.
      ‘‘(2) PROVISION.—Each public housing agency or owner or
manager of housing assisted under a covered housing program
shall provide the notice developed under paragraph (1), together
with the form described in subsection (c)(3)(A), to an applicant
for or tenants of housing assisted under a covered housing
program—  ‘‘(A) at the time the applicant is denied residency in
      a dwelling unit assisted under the covered housing pro-
      gram; ‘‘(B) at the time the individual is admitted to a dwelling
      unit assisted under the covered housing program;
            ‘‘(C) with any notification of eviction or notification
      of termination of assistance; and
            ‘‘(D) in multiple languages, consistent with guidance
      issued by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
                                S. 47—54

           in accordance with Executive Order 13166 (42 U.S.C.
           2000d–1 note; relating to access to services for persons
           with limited English proficiency).
     ‘‘(e) EMERGENCY TRANSFERS.—Each appropriate agency shall
adopt a model emergency transfer plan for use by public housing
agencies and owners or managers of housing assisted under covered
housing programs that—
           ‘‘(1) allows tenants who are victims of domestic violence,
     dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking to transfer to
     another available and safe dwelling unit assisted under a cov-
     ered housing program if—
                 ‘‘(A) the tenant expressly requests the transfer; and
                 ‘‘(B)(i) the tenant reasonably believes that the tenant
           is threatened with imminent harm from further violence
           if the tenant remains within the same dwelling unit
           assisted under a covered housing program; or
                 ‘‘(ii) in the case of a tenant who is a victim of sexual
           assault, the sexual assault occurred on the premises during
           the 90 day period preceding the request for transfer; and
           ‘‘(2) incorporates reasonable confidentiality measures to
     ensure that the public housing agency or owner or manager
     does not disclose the location of the dwelling unit of a tenant
     to a person that commits an act of domestic violence, dating
     violence, sexual assault, or stalking against the tenant.
     ‘‘(f) POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR EMERGENCY TRANSFER.—
The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall establish
policies and procedures under which a victim requesting an emer-
gency transfer under subsection (e) may receive, subject to the
availability of tenant protection vouchers, assistance under section
8(o) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)).
     ‘‘(g) IMPLEMENTATION.—The appropriate agency with respect
to each covered housing program shall implement this section,
as this section applies to the covered housing program.’’.
     (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
           (1) SECTION 6.—Section 6 of the United States Housing
     Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437d) is amended—
                 (A) in subsection (c)—
                        (i) by striking paragraph (3); and
                        (ii) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as
                 paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively;
                 (B) in subsection (l)—
                        (i) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘, and that an
                 incident or incidents of actual or threatened domestic
                 violence, dating violence, or stalking will not be con-
                 strued as a serious or repeated violation of the lease
                 by the victim or threatened victim of that violence
                 and will not be good cause for terminating the tenancy
                 or occupancy rights of the victim of such violence’’;
                 and    (ii) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘; except that’’
                 and all that follows through ‘‘stalking.’’; and
                 (C) by striking subsection (u).
           (2) SECTION 8.—Section 8 of the United States Housing
     Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) is amended—
                 (A) in subsection (c), by striking paragraph (9);
                 (B) in subsection (d)(1)—
                           S. 47—55

            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and that an
       applicant or participant is or has been a victim of
       domestic violence, dating violence, or stalking is not
       an appropriate basis for denial of program assistance
       or for denial of admission if the applicant otherwise
       qualifies for assistance or admission’’; and
            (ii) in subparagraph (B)—
                  (I) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘, and that an
            incident or incidents of actual or threatened
            domestic violence, dating violence, or stalking will
            not be construed as a serious or repeated violation
            of the lease by the victim or threatened victim
            of that violence and will not be good cause for
            terminating the tenancy or occupancy rights of
            the victim of such violence’’; and
                  (II) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘, except that:’’
            and all that follows through ‘‘stalking.’’;
       (C) in subsection (f)—
            (i) in paragraph (6), by adding ‘‘and’’ at the end;
            (ii) in paragraph (7), by striking the semicolon
       at the end and inserting a period; and
            (iii) by striking paragraphs (8), (9), (10), and (11);
       (D) in subsection (o)—
            (i) in paragraph (6)(B), by striking the last sen-
       tence;
            (ii) in paragraph (7)—
                  (I) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘and that
            an incident or incidents of actual or threatened
            domestic violence, dating violence, or stalking shall
            not be construed as a serious or repeated violation
            of the lease by the victim or threatened victim
            of that violence and shall not be good cause for
            terminating the tenancy or occupancy rights of
            the victim of such violence’’; and
                  (II) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘; except
            that’’ and all that follows through ‘‘stalking.’’; and
            (iii) by striking paragraph (20); and
       (E) by striking subsection (ee).
   (3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this Act, or the
amendments made by this Act, shall be construed—
       (A) to limit the rights or remedies available to any
   person under section 6 or 8 of the United States Housing
   Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437d and 1437f), as in effect
   on the day before the date of enactment of this Act;
       (B) to limit any right, remedy, or procedure otherwise
   available under any provision of part 5, 91, 880, 882, 883,
   884, 886, 891, 903, 960, 966, 982, or 983 of title 24, Code
   of Federal Regulations, that—
            (i) was issued under the Violence Against Women
       and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005
       (Public Law 109–162; 119 Stat. 2960) or an amendment
       made by that Act; and
            (ii) provides greater protection for victims of
       domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
       stalking than this Act; or
       (C) to disqualify an owner, manager, or other individual
   from participating in or receiving the benefits of the low
                                S. 47—56

         income housing tax credit program under section 42 of
         the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 because of noncompli-
         ance with the provisions of this Act.
SEC. 602. TRANSITIONAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE GRANTS FOR VICTIMS
            OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL
            ASSAULT, AND STALKING.
     Chapter 11 of subtitle B of the Violence Against Women Act
of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13975 et seq.) is amended—
         (1) in the chapter heading, by striking ‘‘CHILD VICTIMS
     OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, STALKING, OR SEXUAL
     ASSAULT’’ and inserting ‘‘VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC
     VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, OR
     STALKING’’; and
         (2) in section 40299 (42 U.S.C. 13975)—
              (A) in the header, by striking ‘‘CHILD VICTIMS OF
         DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, STALKING, OR SEXUAL ASSAULT’’ and
         inserting ‘‘VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING
         VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, OR STALKING’’;
              (B) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ‘‘fleeing’’;
              (C) in subsection (b)(3)—
              end;  (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘ and’’ at the
                    (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subpara-
              graph (C);
                    (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the fol-
              lowing:
              ‘‘(B) secure employment, including obtaining employ-
         ment counseling, occupational training, job retention coun-
         seling, and counseling concerning re-entry in to the
         workforce; and’’; and
                    (iv) in subparagraph (C), as redesignated by clause
              (ii), by striking ‘‘ employment counseling,’’; and
              (D) in subsection (g)—
                    (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘$40,000,000 for
              each of fiscal years 2007 through 2011’’ and inserting
              ‘‘$35,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through
              2018’’; and
                    (ii) in paragraph (3)—
                           (I) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘eligible’’
                    and inserting ‘‘qualified’’; and
                           (II) by adding at the end the following:
              ‘‘(D) QUALIFIED APPLICATION DEFINED.—In this para-
         graph, the term ‘qualified application’ means an application
         that—    ‘‘(i) has been submitted by an eligible applicant;
                    ‘‘(ii) does not propose any activities that may com-
              promise victim safety, including—
                           ‘‘(I) background checks of victims; or
                           ‘‘(II) clinical evaluations to determine eligi-
                    bility for services;
                    ‘‘(iii) reflects an understanding of the dynamics
              of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
              or stalking; and
                    ‘‘(iv) does not propose prohibited activities,
              including mandatory services for victims.’’.
                               S. 47—57
SEC.   603.   ADDRESSING THE HOUSING NEEDS OF VICTIMS OF
              DOMESTIC   VIOLENCE,   DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL
              ASSAULT, AND STALKING.
    Subtitle N of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42
U.S.C. 14043e et seq.) is amended—
         (1) in section 41404(i) (42 U.S.C. 14043e–3(i)), by striking
    ‘‘$10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2011’’ and
    inserting ‘‘$4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through
    2018’’; and
         (2) in section 41405(g) (42 U.S.C. 14043e–4(g)), by striking
    ‘‘$10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2011’’ and
    inserting ‘‘$4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through
    2018’’.

  TITLE VII—ECONOMIC SECURITY FOR
         VICTIMS OF VIOLENCE
SEC. 701. NATIONAL RESOURCE CENTER ON WORKPLACE RESPONSES
            TO ASSIST VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC AND SEXUAL VIOLENCE.
    Section 41501(e) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994
(42 U.S.C. 14043f(e)) is amended by striking ‘‘fiscal years 2007
through 2011’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal years 2014 through 2018’’.

TITLE VIII—PROTECTION OF BATTERED
            IMMIGRANTS
SEC. 801. U NONIMMIGRANT DEFINITION.
     Section 101(a)(15)(U)(iii) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(U)(iii)) is amended by inserting ‘‘stalking;’’
after ‘‘sexual exploitation;’’.
SEC. 802. ANNUAL REPORT ON IMMIGRATION APPLICATIONS MADE
           BY VICTIMS OF ABUSE.
     Not later than December 1, 2014, and annually thereafter,
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the Committee
on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary
of the House of Representatives a report that includes the following:
         (1) The number of aliens who—
              (A) submitted an application for nonimmigrant status
         under paragraph (15)(T)(i), (15)(U)(i), or (51) of section
         101(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
         1101(a)) during the preceding fiscal year;
              (B) were granted such nonimmigrant status during
         such fiscal year; or
              (C) were denied such nonimmigrant status during such
         fiscal year.
         (2) The mean amount of time and median amount of time
     to adjudicate an application for such nonimmigrant status
     during such fiscal year.
         (3) The mean amount of time and median amount of time
     between the receipt of an application for such nonimmigrant
     status and the issuance of work authorization to an eligible
     applicant during the preceding fiscal year.
                               S. 47—58

        (4) The number of aliens granted continued presence in
    the United States under section 107(c)(3) of the Trafficking
    Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7105(c)(3)) during
    the preceding fiscal year.
        (5) A description of any actions being taken to reduce
    the adjudication and processing time, while ensuring the safe
    and competent processing, of an application described in para-
    graph (1) or a request for continued presence referred to in
    paragraph (4).
SEC. 803. PROTECTION FOR CHILDREN OF VAWA SELF-PETITIONERS.
    Section 204(l)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1154(l)(2)) is amended—
         (1) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end;
         (2) by redesignating subparagraph (F) as subparagraph
    (G); and
         (3) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following:
              ‘‘(F) a child of an alien who filed a pending or approved
         petition for classification or application for adjustment of
         status or other benefit specified in section 101(a)(51) as
         a VAWA self-petitioner; or’’.
SEC. 804. PUBLIC CHARGE.
    Section 212(a)(4) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1182(a)(4)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
             ‘‘(E) SPECIAL RULE FOR QUALIFIED ALIEN VICTIMS.—
        Subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) shall not apply to an
        alien who—
                  ‘‘(i) is a VAWA self-petitioner;
                  ‘‘(ii) is an applicant for, or is granted, non-
             immigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(U); or
                  ‘‘(iii) is a qualified alien described in section 431(c)
             of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity
             Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1641(c)).’’.
SEC. 805. REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO U VISAS.
     (a) IN GENERAL.—Section 214(p) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(p)) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
          ‘‘(7) AGE DETERMINATIONS.—
                ‘‘(A) CHILDREN.—An unmarried alien who seeks to
          accompany, or follow to join, a parent granted status under
          section 101(a)(15)(U)(i), and who was under 21 years of
          age on the date on which such parent petitioned for such
          status, shall continue to be classified as a child for purposes
          of section 101(a)(15)(U)(ii), if the alien attains 21 years
          of age after such parent’s petition was filed but while
          it was pending.
                ‘‘(B) PRINCIPAL ALIENS.—An alien described in clause
          (i) of section 101(a)(15)(U) shall continue to be treated
          as an alien described in clause (ii)(I) of such section if
          the alien attains 21 years of age after the alien’s application
          for status under such clause (i) is filed but while it is
          pending.’’.
     (b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made by subsection (a)
shall take effect as if enacted as part of the Victims of Trafficking
and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–386; 114
Stat. 1464).
SEC. 806. HARDSHIP WAIVERS.      S. 47—59
    (a) IN GENERAL.—Section 216(c)(4) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1186a(c)(4)) is amended—
          (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking the comma at the
    end and inserting a semicolon;
          (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘(1), or’’ and inserting
    ‘‘(1); or’’;
          (3) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the
    end and inserting a semicolon and ‘‘or’’; and
          (4) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following:
                 ‘‘(D) the alien meets the requirements under section
          204(a)(1)(A)(iii)(II)(aa)(BB) and following the marriage cere-
          mony was battered by or subject to extreme cruelty per-
          petrated by the alien’s intended spouse and was not at
          fault in failing to meet the requirements of paragraph
          (1).’’.
    (b) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—Section 216(c)(4) of the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1186a(c)(4)), as amended by
subsection (a), is further amended—
          (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
    ‘‘The Attorney General, in the Attorney General’s’’ and inserting
    ‘‘The Secretary of Homeland Security, in the Secretary’s’’; and
          (2) in the undesignated paragraph at the end—
                 (A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘Attorney General’’
          and inserting ‘‘Secretary of Homeland Security’’;
                 (B) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘Attorney Gen-
          eral’’ and inserting ‘‘Secretary’’;
                 (C) in the third sentence, by striking ‘‘Attorney Gen-
          eral.’’ and inserting ‘‘Secretary.’’; and
                 (D) in the fourth sentence, by striking ‘‘Attorney Gen-
          eral’’ and inserting ‘‘Secretary’’.
                                 ´          ´
SEC. 807. PROTECTIONS FOR A FIANCEE OR FIANCE OF A CITIZEN.
     (a) IN GENERAL.—Section 214 of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1184) is amended—
          (1) in subsection (d)—
               (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘crime.’’ and inserting
          ‘‘crime described in paragraph (3)(B) and information on
          any permanent protection or restraining order issued
          against the petitioner related to any specified crime
          described in paragraph (3)(B)(i).’’;
               (B) in paragraph (2)(A), in the matter preceding clause
          (i)—
                    (i) by striking ‘‘a consular officer’’ and inserting
               ‘‘the Secretary of Homeland Security’’; and
                    (ii) by striking ‘‘the officer’’ and inserting ‘‘the Sec-
               retary’’; and
               (C) in paragraph (3)(B)(i), by striking ‘‘abuse, and
          stalking.’’ and inserting ‘‘abuse, stalking, or an attempt
          to commit any such crime.’’; and
          (2) in subsection (r)—
               (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘crime.’’ and inserting
          ‘‘crime described in paragraph (5)(B) and information on
          any permanent protection or restraining order issued
          against the petitioner related to any specified crime
          described in subsection (5)(B)(i).’’; and
               (B) by amending paragraph (4)(B)(ii) to read as follows:
                                S. 47—60

    ‘‘(ii) To notify the beneficiary as required by clause (i), the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide such notice to the
Secretary of State for inclusion in the mailing to the beneficiary
described in section 833(a)(5)(A)(i) of the International Marriage
Broker Regulation Act of 2005 (8 U.S.C. 1375a(a)(5)(A)(i)).’’; and
           (3) in paragraph (5)(B)(i), by striking ‘‘abuse, and stalking.’’
    and inserting ‘‘abuse, stalking, or an attempt to commit any
    such crime.’’.
    (b) PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO K NONIMMIGRANTS.—Section
833 of the International Marriage Broker Regulation Act of 2005
(8 U.S.C. 1375a) is amended—
           (1) in subsection (a)(5)(A)—
                (A) in clause (iii)—
                     (i) by striking ‘‘State any’’ and inserting ‘‘State,
                for inclusion in the mailing described in clause (i),
                any’’; and
                     (ii) by striking the last sentence; and
                (B) by adding at the end the following:
                     ‘‘(iv) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall
                conduct a background check of the National Crime
                Information Center’s Protection Order Database on
                each petitioner for a visa under subsection (d) or (r)
                of section 214 of the Immigration and Nationality Act
                (8 U.S.C. 1184). Any appropriate information obtained
                from such background check—
                           ‘‘(I) shall accompany the criminal background
                     information provided by the Secretary of Homeland
                     Security to the Secretary of State and shared by
                     the Secretary of State with a beneficiary of a peti-
                     tion referred to in clause (iii); and
                           ‘‘(II) shall not be used or disclosed for any
                     other purpose unless expressly authorized by law.
                     ‘‘(v) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall
                create a cover sheet or other mechanism to accompany
                the information required to be provided to an applicant
                for a visa under subsection (d) or (r) of section 214
                of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1184)
                by clauses (i) through (iv) of this paragraph or by
                clauses (i) and (ii) of subsection (r)(4)(B) of such section
                214, that calls to the applicant’s attention—
                           ‘‘(I) whether the petitioner disclosed a protec-
                     tion order, a restraining order, or criminal history
                     information on the visa petition;
                           ‘‘(II) the criminal background information and
                     information about any protection order obtained
                     by the Secretary of Homeland Security regarding
                     the petitioner in the course of adjudicating the
                     petition; and
                           ‘‘(III) whether the information the petitioner
                     disclosed on the visa petition regarding any pre-
                     vious petitions filed under subsection (d) or (r)
                     of such section 214 is consistent with the informa-
                     tion in the multiple visa tracking database of the
                     Department of Homeland Security, as described
                     in subsection (r)(4)(A) of such section 214.’’; and
           (2) in subsection (b)(1)(A), by striking ‘‘or’’ after ‘‘orders’’
    and inserting ‘‘and’’.
                                 S. 47—61
SEC. 808. REGULATION OF INTERNATIONAL MARRIAGE BROKERS.
     (a) IMPLEMENTATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL MARRIAGE BROKER
ACT OF 2005.—
          (1) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the following:
                (A) The International Marriage Broker Act of 2005
          (subtitle D of Public Law 109–162; 119 Stat. 3066) has
          not been fully implemented with regard to investigating
          and prosecuting violations of the law, and for other pur-
          poses.(B) Six years after Congress enacted the International
          Marriage Broker Act of 2005 to regulate the activities
          of the hundreds of for-profit international marriage brokers
          operating in the United States, the Attorney General has
          not determined which component of the Department of
          Justice will investigate and prosecute violations of such
          Act.
          (2) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after the date of
     the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall submit
     to Congress a report that includes the following:
                (A) The name of the component of the Department
          of Justice responsible for investigating and prosecuting vio-
          lations of the International Marriage Broker Act of 2005
          (subtitle D of Public Law 109–162; 119 Stat. 3066) and
          the amendments made by this Act.
                (B) A description of the policies and procedures of
          the Attorney General for consultation with the Secretary
          of Homeland Security and the Secretary of State in inves-
          tigating and prosecuting such violations.
     (b) TECHNICAL CORRECTION.—Section 833(a)(2)(H) of the Inter-
national Marriage Broker Regulation Act of 2005 (8 U.S.C.
1375a(a)(2)(H)) is amended by striking ‘‘Federal and State sex
offender public registries’’ and inserting ‘‘the National Sex Offender
Public Website’’.
     (c) REGULATION OF INTERNATIONAL MARRIAGE BROKERS.—Sec-
tion 833(d) of the International Marriage Broker Regulation Act
of 2005 (8 U.S.C. 1375a(d)) is amended—
          (1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
          ‘‘(1) PROHIBITION ON MARKETING OF OR TO CHILDREN.—
                ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—An international marriage broker
          shall not provide any individual or entity with the personal
          contact information, photograph, or general information
          about the background or interests of any individual under
          the age of 18.
                ‘‘(B) COMPLIANCE.—To comply with the requirements
          of subparagraph (A), an international marriage broker
          shall—   ‘‘(i) obtain a valid copy of each foreign national
                client’s birth certificate or other proof of age document
                issued by an appropriate government entity;
                     ‘‘(ii) indicate on such certificate or document the
                date it was received by the international marriage
                broker;
                     ‘‘(iii) retain the original of such certificate or docu-
                ment for 7 years after such date of receipt; and
                     ‘‘(iv) produce such certificate or document upon
                request to an appropriate authority charged with the
                enforcement of this paragraph.’’;
                       S. 47—62

(2) in paragraph (2)—
     (A) in subparagraph (A)(i)—
           (i) in the heading, by striking ‘‘REGISTRIES.—’’ and
     inserting ‘‘WEBSITE.—’’; and
           (ii) by striking ‘‘Registry or State sex offender
     public registry,’’ and inserting ‘‘Website,’’; and
     (B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ‘‘or stalking.’’
and inserting ‘‘stalking, or an attempt to commit any such
crime.’’;
(3) in paragraph (3)—
     (A) in subparagraph (A)—
           (i) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘Registry, or of the
     relevant State sex offender public registry for any State
     not yet participating in the National Sex Offender
     Public Registry, in which the United States client has
     resided during the previous 20 years,’’ and inserting
     ‘‘Website’’; and
           (ii) in clause (iii)(II), by striking ‘‘background
     information collected by the international marriage
     broker under paragraph (2)(B);’’ and inserting ‘‘signed
     certification and accompanying documentation or
     attestation regarding the background information col-
     lected under paragraph (2)(B);’’; and
     (B) by striking subparagraph (C);
(4) in paragraph (5)—
     (A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking ‘‘A penalty may
be imposed under clause (i) by the Attorney General only’’
and inserting ‘‘At the discretion of the Attorney General,
a penalty may be imposed under clause (i) either by a
Federal judge, or by the Attorney General’’;
     (B) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows:
     ‘‘(B) FEDERAL CRIMINAL PENALTIES.—
           ‘‘(i) FAILURE OF INTERNATIONAL MARRIAGE BROKERS
     TO COMPLY WITH OBLIGATIONS.—Except as provided in
     clause (ii), an international marriage broker that, in
     circumstances in or affecting interstate or foreign com-
     merce, or within the special maritime and territorial
     jurisdiction of the United States—
                  ‘‘(I) except as provided in subclause (II), vio-
           lates (or attempts to violate) paragraph (1), (2),
           (3), or (4) shall be fined in accordance with title
           18, United States Code, or imprisoned for not more
           than 1 year, or both; or
                  ‘‘(II) knowingly violates or attempts to violate
           paragraphs (1), (2), (3), or (4) shall be fined in
           accordance with title 18, United States Code, or
           imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or both.
           ‘‘(ii) MISUSE OF INFORMATION.—A person who
     knowingly discloses, uses, or causes to be used any
     information obtained by an international marriage
     broker as a result of a requirement under paragraph
     (2) or (3) for any purpose other than the disclosures
     required under paragraph (3) shall be fined in accord-
     ance with title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned
     for not more than 1 year, or both.
           ‘‘(iii) FRAUDULENT FAILURES OF UNITED STATES CLI-
     ENTS TO MAKE REQUIRED SELF-DISCLOSURES.—A person
                               S. 47—63

               who knowingly and with intent to defraud another
               person outside the United States in order to recruit,
               solicit, entice, or induce that other person into entering
               a dating or matrimonial relationship, makes false or
               fraudulent representations regarding the disclosures
               described in clause (i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of subsection
               (d)(2)(B), including by failing to make any such disclo-
               sures, shall be fined in accordance with title 18, United
               States Code, imprisoned for not more than 1 year,
               or both.
                    ‘‘(iv) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER PENALTIES.—The
               penalties provided in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) are in
               addition to any other civil or criminal liability under
               Federal or State law to which a person may be subject
               for the misuse of information, including misuse to
               threaten, intimidate, or harass any individual.
                    ‘‘(v) CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this paragraph
               or paragraph (3) or (4) may be construed to prevent
               the disclosure of information to law enforcement or
               pursuant to a court order.’’; and
               (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at
         the end and inserting ‘‘including equitable remedies.’’;
         (5) by redesignating paragraphs (6) and (7) as paragraphs
    (7) and (8), respectively; and
         (6) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:
         ‘‘(6) ENFORCEMENT.—
               ‘‘(A) AUTHORITY.—The Attorney General shall be
         responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this
         section, including the prosecution of civil and criminal pen-
         alties provided for by this section.
               ‘‘(B) CONSULTATION.—The Attorney General shall con-
         sult with the Director of the Office on Violence Against
         Women of the Department of Justice to develop policies
         and public education designed to promote enforcement of
         this section.’’.
    (d) GAO STUDY AND REPORT.—Section 833(f) of the Inter-
national Marriage Broker Regulation Act of 2005 (8 U.S.C. 1375a(f))
is amended—
         (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ‘‘STUDY AND
    REPORT.—’’ and inserting ‘‘STUDIES AND REPORTS.—’’; and
         (2) by adding at the end the following:
         ‘‘(4) CONTINUING IMPACT STUDY AND REPORT.—
               ‘‘(A) STUDY.—The Comptroller General shall conduct
         a study on the continuing impact of the implementation
         of this section and of section of 214 of the Immigration
         and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1184) on the process for
         granting K nonimmigrant visas, including specifically a
         study of the items described in subparagraphs (A) through
         (E) of paragraph (1).
               ‘‘(B) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after the date
         of the enactment of the Violence Against Women Reauthor-
         ization Act of 2013, the Comptroller General shall submit
         to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the
         Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives
         a report setting forth the results of the study conducted
         under subparagraph (A).
                              S. 47—64

             ‘‘(C) DATA COLLECTION.—The Attorney General, the
        Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of State
        shall collect and maintain the data necessary for the Comp-
        troller General to conduct the study required by paragraph
        (1)(A).’’.
SEC. 809. ELIGIBILITY OF CRIME AND TRAFFICKING VICTIMS IN THE
           COMMONWEALTH OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
           TO ADJUST STATUS.
     Section 705(c) of the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of
2008 (Public Law 110–229; 48 U.S.C. 1806 note), is amended by
striking ‘‘except that,’’ and all that follows through the end, and
inserting the following: ‘‘except that—
          ‘‘(1) for the purpose of determining whether an alien law-
     fully admitted for permanent residence (as defined in section
     101(a)(20) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
     1101(a)(20)) has abandoned or lost such status by reason of
     absence from the United States, such alien’s presence in the
     Commonwealth, before, on or after November 28, 2009, shall
     be considered to be presence in the United States; and
          ‘‘(2) for the purpose of determining whether an alien whose
     application for status under subparagraph (T) or (U) of section
     101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
     1101(a)(15)) was granted is subsequently eligible for adjustment
     under subsection (l) or (m) of section 245 of such Act (8 U.S.C.
     1255), such alien’s physical presence in the Commonwealth
     before, on, or after November 28, 2009, and subsequent to
     the grant of the application, shall be considered as equivalent
     to presence in the United States pursuant to a nonimmigrant
     admission in such status.’’.
SEC. 810. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION FOR NATIONAL SECURITY
           PURPOSES.
    (a) INFORMATION SHARING.—Section 384(b) of the Illegal
Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996
(8 U.S.C. 1367(b)) is amended—
        (1) in paragraph (1)—
              (A) by inserting ‘‘Secretary of Homeland Security or
        the’’ before ‘‘Attorney General may’’; and
              (B) by inserting ‘‘Secretary’s or the’’ before ‘‘Attorney
        General’s discretion’’;
        (2) in paragraph (2)—
              (A) by inserting ‘‘Secretary of Homeland Security or
        the’’ before ‘‘Attorney General may’’;
              (B) by inserting ‘‘Secretary or the’’ before ‘‘Attorney
        General for’’; and
              (C) by inserting ‘‘in a manner that protects the con-
        fidentiality of such information’’ after ‘‘law enforcement
        purpose’’;
        (3) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘Attorney General is’’
    and inserting ‘‘Secretary of Homeland Security and the Attorney
    General are’’; and
        (4) by adding at the end a new paragraph as follows:
        ‘‘(8) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(2), the Secretary of
    Homeland Security, the Secretary of State, or the Attorney
    General may provide in the discretion of either such Secretary
    or the Attorney General for the disclosure of information to
                                 S. 47—65

     national security officials to be used solely for a national secu-
     rity purpose in a manner that protects the confidentiality of
     such information.’’.
     (b) GUIDELINES.—Section 384(d) of the Illegal Immigration
Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1367(d))
is amended—
          (1) by inserting ‘‘, Secretary of State,’’ after ‘‘The Attorney
     General’’;
          (2) by inserting ‘‘, Department of State,’’ after ‘‘Department
     of Justice’’; and
          (3) by inserting ‘‘and severe forms of trafficking in persons
     or criminal activity listed in section 101(a)(15)(U) of the
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(u))’’ after
     ‘‘domestic violence’’.
     (c) IMPLEMENTATION.—Not later than 180 days after the date
of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General, the Secretary
of State, and Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide the
guidance required by section 384(d) of the Illegal Immigration
Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1367(d)),
consistent with the amendments made by subsections (a) and (b).
     (d) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 384(a)(1) of the Illegal
Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1986
is amended by striking ‘‘241(a)(2)’’ in the matter following subpara-
graph (F) and inserting ‘‘237(a)(2)’’.

 TITLE IX—SAFETY FOR INDIAN WOMEN
SEC. 901. GRANTS TO INDIAN TRIBAL GOVERNMENTS.
    Section 2015(a) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg–10(a)) is amended—
         (1) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘sex trafficking,’’ after
    ‘‘sexual assault,’’;
         (2) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘sex trafficking,’’ after
    ‘‘sexual assault,’’;
         (3) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘and stalking’’ and all
    that follows and inserting ‘‘sexual assault, sex trafficking, and
    stalking;’’;
         (4) in paragraph (7)—
               (A) by inserting ‘‘sex trafficking,’’ after ‘‘sexual assault,’’
         each place it appears; and
               (B) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
         (5) in paragraph (8)—
               (A) by inserting ‘‘sex trafficking,’’ after ‘‘stalking,’’; and
               (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting
         a semicolon; and
         (6) by adding at the end the following:
         ‘‘(9) provide services to address the needs of youth who
    are victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
    sex trafficking, or stalking and the needs of youth and children
    exposed to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
    or stalking, including support for the nonabusing parent or
    the caretaker of the youth or child; and
         ‘‘(10) develop and promote legislation and policies that
    enhance best practices for responding to violent crimes against
    Indian women, including the crimes of domestic violence, dating
    violence, sexual assault, sex trafficking, and stalking.’’.
                                S. 47—66
SEC. 902. GRANTS TO INDIAN TRIBAL COALITIONS.
    Section 2001 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg) is amended by striking
subsection (d) and inserting the following:
    ‘‘(d) TRIBAL COALITION GRANTS.—
          ‘‘(1) PURPOSE.—The Attorney General shall award a grant
    to tribal coalitions for purposes of—
                ‘‘(A) increasing awareness of domestic violence and
          sexual assault against Indian women;
                ‘‘(B) enhancing the response to violence against Indian
          women at the Federal, State, and tribal levels;
                ‘‘(C) identifying and providing technical assistance to
          coalition membership and tribal communities to enhance
          access to essential services to Indian women victimized
          by domestic and sexual violence, including sex trafficking;
          and   ‘‘(D) assisting Indian tribes in developing and pro-
          moting State, local, and tribal legislation and policies that
          enhance best practices for responding to violent crimes
          against Indian women, including the crimes of domestic
          violence, dating violence, sexual assault, sex trafficking,
          and stalking.
          ‘‘(2) GRANTS.—The Attorney General shall award grants
    on an annual basis under paragraph (1) to—
                ‘‘(A) each tribal coalition that—
                      ‘‘(i) meets the criteria of a tribal coalition under
                section 40002(a) of the Violence Against Women Act
                of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13925(a));
                      ‘‘(ii) is recognized by the Office on Violence Against
                Women; and
                      ‘‘(iii) provides services to Indian tribes; and
                ‘‘(B) organizations that propose to incorporate and
          operate a tribal coalition in areas where Indian tribes
          are located but no tribal coalition exists.
          ‘‘(3) USE OF AMOUNTS.—For each of fiscal years 2014
    through 2018, of the amounts appropriated to carry out this
    subsection—
                ‘‘(A) not more than 10 percent shall be made available
          to organizations described in paragraph (2)(B), provided
          that 1 or more organizations determined by the Attorney
          General to be qualified apply;
                ‘‘(B) not less than 90 percent shall be made available
          to tribal coalitions described in paragraph (2)(A), which
          amounts shall be distributed equally among each eligible
          tribal coalition for the applicable fiscal year.
          ‘‘(4) ELIGIBILITY FOR OTHER GRANTS.—Receipt of an award
    under this subsection by a tribal coalition shall not preclude
    the tribal coalition from receiving additional grants under this
    title to carry out the purposes described in paragraph (1).
          ‘‘(5) MULTIPLE PURPOSE APPLICATIONS.—Nothing in this
    subsection prohibits any tribal coalition or organization
    described in paragraph (2) from applying for funding to address
    sexual assault or domestic violence needs in the same applica-
    tion.’’.
SEC. 903. CONSULTATION.        S. 47—67
     Section 903 of the Violence Against Women and Department
of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14045d) is
amended— (1) in subsection (a)—
                 (A) by striking ‘‘and the Violence Against Women Act
           of 2000’’ and inserting ‘‘, the Violence Against Women
           Act of 2000’’; and
                 (B) by inserting ‘‘, and the Violence Against Women
           Reauthorization Act of 2013’’ before the period at the end;
           (2) in subsection (b)—
                 (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
           ‘‘Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Serv-
           ices’’ and inserting ‘‘Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
           ices, the Secretary of the Interior,’’; and
                 (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and stalking’’ and
           inserting ‘‘stalking, and sex trafficking’’; and
           (3) by adding at the end the following:
     ‘‘(c) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Attorney General shall submit to
Congress an annual report on the annual consultations required
under subsection (a) that—
           ‘‘(1) contains the recommendations made under subsection
     (b) by Indian tribes during the year covered by the report;
           ‘‘(2) describes actions taken during the year covered by
     the report to respond to recommendations made under sub-
     section (b) during the year or a previous year; and
           ‘‘(3) describes how the Attorney General will work in
     coordination and collaboration with Indian tribes, the Secretary
     of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of the Interior
     to address the recommendations made under subsection (b).
     ‘‘(d) NOTICE.—Not later than 120 days before the date of a
consultation under subsection (a), the Attorney General shall notify
tribal leaders of the date, time, and location of the consultation.’’.
SEC.     904.   TRIBAL JURISDICTION    OVER   CRIMES   OF   DOMESTIC
                VIOLENCE.
    Title II of Public Law 90–284 (25 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.) (commonly
known as the ‘‘Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968’’) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC.   204.    TRIBAL JURISDICTION   OVER   CRIMES   OF   DOMESTIC
                VIOLENCE.
       ‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
             ‘‘(1) DATING VIOLENCE.—The term ‘dating violence’ means
       violence committed by a person who is or has been in a social
       relationship of a romantic or intimate nature with the victim,
       as determined by the length of the relationship, the type of
       relationship, and the frequency of interaction between the per-
       sons involved in the relationship.
             ‘‘(2) DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.—The term ‘domestic violence’
       means violence committed by a current or former spouse or
       intimate partner of the victim, by a person with whom the
       victim shares a child in common, by a person who is cohabi-
       tating with or has cohabitated with the victim as a spouse
       or intimate partner, or by a person similarly situated to a
       spouse of the victim under the domestic- or family- violence
                           S. 47—68

laws of an Indian tribe that has jurisdiction over the Indian
country where the violence occurs.
      ‘‘(3) INDIAN COUNTRY.—The term ‘Indian country’ has the
meaning given the term in section 1151 of title 18, United
States Code.
      ‘‘(4) PARTICIPATING TRIBE.—The term ‘participating tribe’
means an Indian tribe that elects to exercise special domestic
violence criminal jurisdiction over the Indian country of that
Indian tribe.
      ‘‘(5) PROTECTION ORDER.—The term ‘protection order’—
            ‘‘(A) means any injunction, restraining order, or other
      order issued by a civil or criminal court for the purpose
      of preventing violent or threatening acts or harassment
      against, sexual violence against, contact or communication
      with, or physical proximity to, another person; and
            ‘‘(B) includes any temporary or final order issued by
      a civil or criminal court, whether obtained by filing an
      independent action or as a pendent lite order in another
      proceeding, if the civil or criminal order was issued in
      response to a complaint, petition, or motion filed by or
      on behalf of a person seeking protection.
      ‘‘(6) SPECIAL DOMESTIC VIOLENCE CRIMINAL JURISDICTION.—
The term ‘special domestic violence criminal jurisdiction’ means
the criminal jurisdiction that a participating tribe may exercise
under this section but could not otherwise exercise.
      ‘‘(7) SPOUSE OR INTIMATE PARTNER.—The term ‘spouse or
intimate partner’ has the meaning given the term in section
2266 of title 18, United States Code.
‘‘(b) NATURE OF THE CRIMINAL JURISDICTION.—
      ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, in addition to all powers of self-government recognized
and affirmed by sections 201 and 203, the powers of self-
government of a participating tribe include the inherent power
of that tribe, which is hereby recognized and affirmed, to exer-
cise special domestic violence criminal jurisdiction over all per-
sons. ‘‘(2) CONCURRENT JURISDICTION.—The exercise of special
domestic violence criminal jurisdiction by a participating tribe
shall be concurrent with the jurisdiction of the United States,
of a State, or of both.
      ‘‘(3) APPLICABILITY.—Nothing in this section—
            ‘‘(A) creates or eliminates any Federal or State criminal
      jurisdiction over Indian country; or
            ‘‘(B) affects the authority of the United States or any
      State government that has been delegated authority by
      the United States to investigate and prosecute a criminal
      violation in Indian country.
      ‘‘(4) EXCEPTIONS.—
            ‘‘(A) VICTIM AND DEFENDANT ARE BOTH NON-INDIANS.—
                  ‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A participating tribe may not
            exercise special domestic violence criminal jurisdiction
            over an alleged offense if neither the defendant nor
            the alleged victim is an Indian.
                  ‘‘(ii) DEFINITION OF VICTIM.—In this subparagraph
            and with respect to a criminal proceeding in which
            a participating tribe exercises special domestic violence
            criminal jurisdiction based on a violation of a protection
                                S. 47—69

                order, the term ‘victim’ means a person specifically
                protected by a protection order that the defendant
                allegedly violated.
                ‘‘(B) DEFENDANT LACKS TIES TO THE INDIAN TRIBE.—
          A participating tribe may exercise special domestic violence
          criminal jurisdiction over a defendant only if the defend-
          ant—      ‘‘(i) resides in the Indian country of the partici-
                pating tribe;
                      ‘‘(ii) is employed in the Indian country of the
                participating tribe; or
                      ‘‘(iii) is a spouse, intimate partner, or dating
                partner of—‘‘(I) a member of the participating tribe; or
                             ‘‘(II) an Indian who resides in the Indian
                      country of the participating tribe.
    ‘‘(c) CRIMINAL CONDUCT.—A participating tribe may exercise
special domestic violence criminal jurisdiction over a defendant
for criminal conduct that falls into one or more of the following
categories:
          ‘‘(1) DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AND DATING VIOLENCE.—An act
    of domestic violence or dating violence that occurs in the Indian
    country of the participating tribe.
          ‘‘(2) VIOLATIONS OF PROTECTION ORDERS.—An act that—
                ‘‘(A) occurs in the Indian country of the participating
          tribe; and
                ‘‘(B) violates the portion of a protection order that—
                      ‘‘(i) prohibits or provides protection against violent
                or threatening acts or harassment against, sexual
                violence against, contact or communication with, or
                physical proximity to, another person;
                      ‘‘(ii) was issued against the defendant;
                      ‘‘(iii) is enforceable by the participating tribe; and
                      ‘‘(iv) is consistent with section 2265(b) of title 18,
                United States Code.
    ‘‘(d) RIGHTS OF DEFENDANTS.—In a criminal proceeding in
which a participating tribe exercises special domestic violence
criminal jurisdiction, the participating tribe shall provide to the
defendant—
          ‘‘(1) all applicable rights under this Act;
          ‘‘(2) if a term of imprisonment of any length may be
    imposed, all rights described in section 202(c);
          ‘‘(3) the right to a trial by an impartial jury that is drawn
    from sources that—
                ‘‘(A) reflect a fair cross section of the community; and
                ‘‘(B) do not systematically exclude any distinctive group
          in the community, including non-Indians; and
          ‘‘(4) all other rights whose protection is necessary under
    the Constitution of the United States in order for Congress
    to recognize and affirm the inherent power of the participating
    tribe to exercise special domestic violence criminal jurisdiction
    over the defendant.
    ‘‘(e) PETITIONS TO STAY DETENTION.—
          ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A person who has filed a petition for
    a writ of habeas corpus in a court of the United States under
    section 203 may petition that court to stay further detention
    of that person by the participating tribe.
                               S. 47—70

           ‘‘(2) GRANT OF STAY.—A court shall grant a stay described
     in paragraph (1) if the court—
                 ‘‘(A) finds that there is a substantial likelihood that
           the habeas corpus petition will be granted; and
                 ‘‘(B) after giving each alleged victim in the matter
           an opportunity to be heard, finds by clear and convincing
           evidence that under conditions imposed by the court, the
           petitioner is not likely to flee or pose a danger to any
           person or the community if released.
           ‘‘(3) NOTICE.—An Indian tribe that has ordered the deten-
     tion of any person has a duty to timely notify such person
     of his rights and privileges under this subsection and under
     section 203.
     ‘‘(f) GRANTS TO TRIBAL GOVERNMENTS.—The Attorney General
may award grants to the governments of Indian tribes (or to author-
ized designees of those governments)—
           ‘‘(1) to strengthen tribal criminal justice systems to assist
     Indian tribes in exercising special domestic violence criminal
     jurisdiction, including—
                 ‘‘(A) law enforcement (including the capacity of law
           enforcement or court personnel to enter information into
           and obtain information from national crime information
           databases);
                 ‘‘(B) prosecution;
                 ‘‘(C) trial and appellate courts;
                 ‘‘(D) probation systems;
                 ‘‘(E) detention and correctional facilities;
                 ‘‘(F) alternative rehabilitation centers;
                 ‘‘(G) culturally appropriate services and assistance for
           victims and their families; and
                 ‘‘(H) criminal codes and rules of criminal procedure,
           appellate procedure, and evidence;
           ‘‘(2) to provide indigent criminal defendants with the effec-
     tive assistance of licensed defense counsel, at no cost to the
     defendant, in criminal proceedings in which a participating
     tribe prosecutes a crime of domestic violence or dating violence
     or a criminal violation of a protection order;
           ‘‘(3) to ensure that, in criminal proceedings in which a
     participating tribe exercises special domestic violence criminal
     jurisdiction, jurors are summoned, selected, and instructed in
     a manner consistent with all applicable requirements; and
           ‘‘(4) to accord victims of domestic violence, dating violence,
     and violations of protection orders rights that are similar to
     the rights of a crime victim described in section 3771(a) of
     title 18, United States Code, consistent with tribal law and
     custom.
     ‘‘(g) SUPPLEMENT, NOT SUPPLANT.—Amounts made available
under this section shall supplement and not supplant any other
Federal, State, tribal, or local government amounts made available
to carry out activities described in this section.
     ‘‘(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are authorized
to be appropriated $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through
2018 to carry out subsection (f) and to provide training, technical
assistance, data collection, and evaluation of the criminal justice
systems of participating tribes.’’.
                                S. 47—71
SEC. 905. TRIBAL PROTECTION ORDERS.
     Section 2265 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
striking subsection (e) and inserting the following:
     ‘‘(e) TRIBAL COURT JURISDICTION.—For purposes of this section,
a court of an Indian tribe shall have full civil jurisdiction to issue
and enforce protection orders involving any person, including the
authority to enforce any orders through civil contempt proceedings,
to exclude violators from Indian land, and to use other appropriate
mechanisms, in matters arising anywhere in the Indian country
of the Indian tribe (as defined in section 1151) or otherwise within
the authority of the Indian tribe.’’.
SEC. 906. AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL ASSAULT STATUTE.
    (a) IN GENERAL.—Section 113 of title 18, United States Code,
is amended—
          (1) in subsection (a)—
                (A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the fol-
          lowing:
          ‘‘(1) Assault with intent to commit murder or a violation
    of section 2241 or 2242, by a fine under this title, imprisonment
    for not more than 20 years, or both.’’;
                (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘felony under chapter
          109A’’ and inserting ‘‘violation of section 2241 or 2242’’;
                (C) in paragraph (3) by striking ‘‘and without just
          cause or excuse,’’;
                (D) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘six months’’ and
          inserting ‘‘1 year’’;
                (E) in paragraph (7)—
                     (i) by striking ‘‘substantial bodily injury to an indi-
                vidual who has not attained the age of 16 years’’ and
                inserting ‘‘substantial bodily injury to a spouse or
                intimate partner, a dating partner, or an individual
                who has not attained the age of 16 years’’; and
                     (ii) by striking ‘‘fine’’ and inserting ‘‘a fine’’; and
                (F) by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(8) Assault of a spouse, intimate partner, or dating partner
    by strangling, suffocating, or attempting to strangle or suf-
    focate, by a fine under this title, imprisonment for not more
    than 10 years, or both.’’; and
          (2) in subsection (b)—
                (A) by striking ‘‘(b) As used in this subsection—’’ and
          inserting the following:
    ‘‘(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—’’;
                (B) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
                (C) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the
          end and inserting a semicolon; and
                (D) by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(3) the terms ‘dating partner’ and ‘spouse or intimate
    partner’ have the meanings given those terms in section 2266;
          ‘‘(4) the term ‘strangling’ means intentionally, knowingly,
    or recklessly impeding the normal breathing or circulation of
    the blood of a person by applying pressure to the throat or
    neck, regardless of whether that conduct results in any visible
    injury or whether there is any intent to kill or protractedly
    injure the victim; and
          ‘‘(5) the term ‘suffocating’ means intentionally, knowingly,
    or recklessly impeding the normal breathing of a person by
                               S. 47—72

     covering the mouth of the person, the nose of the person,
     or both, regardless of whether that conduct results in any
     visible injury or whether there is any intent to kill or
     protractedly injure the victim.’’.
     (b) INDIAN MAJOR CRIMES.—Section 1153(a) of title 18, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘assault with intent to commit
murder, assault with a dangerous weapon, assault resulting in
serious bodily injury (as defined in section 1365 of this title)’’
and inserting ‘‘a felony assault under section 113’’.
     (c) REPEAT OFFENDERS.—Section 2265A(b)(1)(B) of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘or tribal’’ after
‘‘State’’.
SEC. 907. ANALYSIS AND RESEARCH ON VIOLENCE AGAINST INDIAN
           WOMEN.
      (a) IN GENERAL.—Section 904(a) of the Violence Against Women
and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C.
3796gg–10 note) is amended—
           (1) in paragraph (1)—
                (A) by striking ‘‘The National’’ and inserting ‘‘Not later
           than 2 years after the date of enactment of the Violence
           Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, the National’’;
           and  (B) by inserting ‘‘and in Native villages (as defined
           in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act
           (43 U.S.C. 1602))’’ before the period at the end;
           (2) in paragraph (2)(A)—
                (A) in clause (iv), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
                (B) in clause (v), by striking the period at the end
           and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
                (C) by adding at the end the following:
                     ‘‘(vi) sex trafficking.’’;
           (3) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘this Act’’ and inserting
      ‘‘the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013’’;
      and  (4) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘this section $1,000,000
      for each of fiscal years 2007 and 2008’’ and inserting ‘‘this
      subsection $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 and 2015’’.
      (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Section 905(b)(2) of
the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthor-
ization Act of 2005 (28 U.S.C. 534 note) is amended by striking
‘‘fiscal years 2007 through 2011’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal years 2014
through 2018’’.
SEC. 908. EFFECTIVE DATES; PILOT PROJECT.
    (a) GENERAL EFFECTIVE DATE.—Except as provided in section
4 and subsection (b) of this section, the amendments made by
this title shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) EFFECTIVE DATE FOR SPECIAL DOMESTIC-VIOLENCE CRIMINAL
JURISDICTION.—
          (1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), sub-
    sections (b) through (d) of section 204 of Public Law 90–284
    (as added by section 904) shall take effect on the date that
    is 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
          (2) PILOT PROJECT.—
               (A) IN GENERAL.—At any time during the 2-year period
          beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, an Indian
          tribe may ask the Attorney General to designate the tribe
                             S. 47—73

        as a participating tribe under section 204(a) of Public Law
        90–284 on an accelerated basis.
             (B) PROCEDURE.—The Attorney General may grant a
        request under subparagraph (A) after coordinating with
        the Secretary of the Interior, consulting with affected
        Indian tribes, and concluding that the criminal justice
        system of the requesting tribe has adequate safeguards
        in place to protect defendants’ rights, consistent with sec-
        tion 204 of Public Law 90–284.
             (C) EFFECTIVE DATES FOR PILOT PROJECTS.—An Indian
        tribe designated as a participating tribe under this para-
        graph may commence exercising special domestic violence
        criminal jurisdiction pursuant to subsections (b) through
        (d) of section 204 of Public Law 90–284 on a date estab-
        lished by the Attorney General, after consultation with
        that Indian tribe, but in no event later than the date
        that is 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 909. INDIAN LAW AND ORDER COMMISSION; REPORT ON THE
           ALASKA RURAL JUSTICE AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
           COMMISSION.
     (a) IN GENERAL.—Section 15(f) of the Indian Law Enforcement
Reform Act (25 U.S.C. 2812(f)) is amended by striking ‘‘2 years’’
and inserting ‘‘3 years’’.
     (b) REPORT.—The Attorney General, in consultation with the
Attorney General of the State of Alaska, the Commissioner of Public
Safety of the State of Alaska, the Alaska Federation of Natives
and Federally recognized Indian tribes in the State of Alaska,
shall report to Congress not later than one year after enactment
of this Act with respect to whether the Alaska Rural Justice and
Law Enforcement Commission established under Section 112(a)(1)
of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2004 should be continued
and appropriations authorized for the continued work of the
commission. The report may contain recommendations for legisla-
tion with respect to the scope of work and composition of the
commission.
SEC. 910. SPECIAL RULE FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA.
     (a) EXPANDED JURISDICTION.—In the State of Alaska, the
amendments made by sections 904 and 905 shall only apply to
the Indian country (as defined in section 1151 of title 18, United
States Code) of the Metlakatla Indian Community, Annette Island
Reserve.
     (b) RETAINED JURISDICTION.—The jurisdiction and authority
of each Indian tribe in the State of Alaska under section 2265(e)
of title 18, United States Code (as in effect on the day before
the date of enactment of this Act)—
          (1) shall remain in full force and effect; and
          (2) are not limited or diminished by this Act or any amend-
     ment made by this Act.
     (c) SAVINGS PROVISION.—Nothing in this Act or an amendment
made by this Act limits or diminishes the jurisdiction of the State
of Alaska, any subdivision of the State of Alaska, or any Indian
tribe in the State of Alaska.
                                S. 47—74

                  TITLE X—SAFER ACT
SEC. 1001. SHORT TITLE.
   This title may be cited as the ‘‘Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence
Reporting Act of 2013’’ or the ‘‘SAFER Act of 2013’’.
SEC. 1002. DEBBIE SMITH GRANTS FOR AUDITING SEXUAL ASSAULT
            EVIDENCE BACKLOGS.
    Section 2 of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of
2000 (42 U.S.C. 14135) is amended—
          (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following
    new paragraph:
          ‘‘(7) To conduct an audit consistent with subsection (n)
    of the samples of sexual assault evidence that are in the posses-
    sion of the State or unit of local government and are awaiting
    testing.
          ‘‘(8) To ensure that the collection and processing of DNA
    evidence by law enforcement agencies from crimes, including
    sexual assault and other violent crimes against persons, is
    carried out in an appropriate and timely manner and in accord-
    ance with the protocols and practices developed under sub-
    section (o)(1).’’;
          (2) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following
    new paragraph:
          ‘‘(4) ALLOCATION OF GRANT AWARDS FOR AUDITS.—For each
    of fiscal years 2014 through 2017, not less than 5 percent,
    but not more than 7 percent, of the grant amounts distributed
    under paragraph (1) shall, if sufficient applications to justify
    such amounts are received by the Attorney General, be awarded
    for purposes described in subsection (a)(7), provided that none
    of the funds required to be distributed under this paragraph
    shall decrease or otherwise limit the availability of funds
    required to be awarded to States or units of local government
    under paragraph (3).’’; and
          (3) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ‘‘(n) USE OF FUNDS FOR AUDITING SEXUAL ASSAULT EVIDENCE
BACKLOGS.—
          ‘‘(1) ELIGIBILITY.—The Attorney General may award a grant
    under this section to a State or unit of local government for
    the purpose described in subsection (a)(7) only if the State
    or unit of local government—
                ‘‘(A) submits a plan for performing the audit of samples
          described in such subsection; and
                ‘‘(B) includes in such plan a good-faith estimate of
          the number of such samples.
          ‘‘(2) GRANT CONDITIONS.—A State or unit of local govern-
    ment receiving a grant for the purpose described in subsection
    (a)(7)—
                ‘‘(A) may not enter into any contract or agreement
          with any non-governmental vendor laboratory to conduct
          an audit described in subsection (a)(7); and
                ‘‘(B) shall—
                      ‘‘(i) not later than 1 year after receiving the grant,
                complete the audit referred to in paragraph (1)(A) in
                accordance with the plan submitted under such para-
                graph;
                           S. 47—75

                 ‘‘(ii) not later than 60 days after receiving posses-
           sion of a sample of sexual assault evidence that was
           not in the possession of the State or unit of local
           government at the time of the initiation of an audit
           under paragraph (1)(A), subject to paragraph (4)(F),
           include in any required reports under clause (v), the
           information listed under paragraph (4)(B);
                 ‘‘(iii) for each sample of sexual assault evidence
           that is identified as awaiting testing as part of the
           audit referred to in paragraph (1)(A)—
                        ‘‘(I) assign a unique numeric or alphanumeric
                 identifier to each sample of sexual assault evidence
                 that is in the possession of the State or unit of
                 local government and is awaiting testing; and
                        ‘‘(II) identify the date or dates after which
                 the State or unit of local government would be
                 barred by any applicable statutes of limitations
                 from prosecuting a perpetrator of the sexual
                 assault to which the sample relates;
                 ‘‘(iv) provide that—
                        ‘‘(I) the chief law enforcement officer of the
                 State or unit of local government, respectively,
                 is the individual responsible for the compliance
                 of the State or unit of local government, respec-
                 tively, with the reporting requirements described
                 in clause (v); or
                        ‘‘(II) the designee of such officer may fulfill
                 the responsibility described in subclause (I) so long
                 as such designee is an employee of the State or
                 unit of local government, respectively, and is not
                 an employee of any governmental laboratory or
                 non-governmental vendor laboratory; and
                 ‘‘(v) comply with all grantee reporting require-
           ments described in paragraph (4).
     ‘‘(3) EXTENSION OF INITIAL DEADLINE.—The Attorney Gen-
eral may grant an extension of the deadline under paragraph
(2)(B)(i) to a State or unit of local government that dem-
onstrates that more time is required for compliance with such
paragraph.
     ‘‘(4) SEXUAL ASSAULT FORENSIC EVIDENCE REPORTS.—
           ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For not less than 12 months after
     the completion of an initial count of sexual assault evidence
     that is awaiting testing during an audit referred to in
     paragraph (1)(A), a State or unit of local government that
     receives a grant award under subsection (a)(7) shall, not
     less than every 60 days, submit a report to the Department
     of Justice, on a form prescribed by the Attorney General,
     which shall contain the information required under
     subparagraph (B).
           ‘‘(B) CONTENTS OF REPORTS.—A report under this para-
     graph shall contain the following information:
                 ‘‘(i) The name of the State or unit of local govern-
           ment filing the report.
                 ‘‘(ii) The period of dates covered by the report.
                 ‘‘(iii) The cumulative total number of samples of
           sexual assault evidence that, at the end of the reporting
           period—
                       S. 47—76

                  ‘‘(I) are in the possession of the State or unit
           of local government at the reporting period;
                  ‘‘(II) are awaiting testing; and
                  ‘‘(III) the State or unit of local government
           has determined should undergo DNA or other
           appropriate forensic analyses.
           ‘‘(iv) The cumulative total number of samples of
     sexual assault evidence in the possession of the State
     or unit of local government that, at the end of the
     reporting period, the State or unit of local government
     has determined should not undergo DNA or other
     appropriate forensic analyses, provided that the
     reporting form shall allow for the State or unit of
     local government, at its sole discretion, to explain the
     reasoning for this determination in some or all cases.
           ‘‘(v) The cumulative total number of samples of
     sexual assault evidence in a total under clause (iii)
     that have been submitted to a laboratory for DNA
     or other appropriate forensic analyses.
           ‘‘(vi) The cumulative total number of samples of
     sexual assault evidence identified by an audit referred
     to in paragraph (1)(A) or under paragraph (2)(B)(ii)
     for which DNA or other appropriate forensic analysis
     has been completed at the end of the reporting period.
           ‘‘(vii) The total number of samples of sexual assault
     evidence identified by the State or unit of local govern-
     ment under paragraph (2)(B)(ii), since the previous
     reporting period.
           ‘‘(viii) The cumulative total number of samples
     of sexual assault evidence described under clause (iii)
     for which the State or unit of local government will
     be barred within 12 months by any applicable statute
     of limitations from prosecuting a perpetrator of the
     sexual assault to which the sample relates.
     ‘‘(C) PUBLICATION OF REPORTS.—Not later than 7 days
after the submission of a report under this paragraph by
a State or unit of local government, the Attorney General
shall, subject to subparagraph (D), publish and disseminate
a facsimile of the full contents of such report on an appro-
priate internet website.
     ‘‘(D) PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION.—The
Attorney General shall ensure that any information pub-
lished and disseminated as part of a report under this
paragraph, which reports information under this sub-
section, does not include personally identifiable information
or details about a sexual assault that might lead to the
identification of the individuals involved.
     ‘‘(E) OPTIONAL REPORTING.—The Attorney General
shall—   ‘‘(i) at the discretion of a State or unit of local
     government required to file a report under subpara-
     graph (A), allow such State or unit of local government,
     at their sole discretion, to submit such reports on a
     more frequent basis; and
           ‘‘(ii) make available to all States and units of local
     government the reporting form created pursuant to
     subparagraph (A), whether or not they are required
                                 S. 47—77

                to submit such reports, and allow such States or units
                of local government, at their sole discretion, to submit
                such reports for publication.
                ‘‘(F) SAMPLES EXEMPT FROM REPORTING REQUIRE-
          MENT.—The reporting requirements described in paragraph
          (2) shall not apply to a sample of sexual assault evidence
          that—     ‘‘(i) is not considered criminal evidence (such as
                a sample collected anonymously from a victim who
                is unwilling to make a criminal complaint); or
                      ‘‘(ii) relates to a sexual assault for which the
                prosecution of each perpetrator is barred by a statute
                of limitations.
          ‘‘(5) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
                ‘‘(A) AWAITING TESTING.—The term ‘awaiting testing’
          means, with respect to a sample of sexual assault evidence,
          that—     ‘‘(i) the sample has been collected and is in the
                possession of a State or unit of local government;
                      ‘‘(ii) DNA and other appropriate forensic analyses
                have not been performed on such sample; and
                      ‘‘(iii) the sample is related to a criminal case or
                investigation in which final disposition has not yet
                been reached.
                ‘‘(B) FINAL DISPOSITION.—The term ‘final disposition’
          means, with respect to a criminal case or investigation
          to which a sample of sexual assault evidence relates—
                      ‘‘(i) the conviction or acquittal of all suspected per-
                petrators of the crime involved;
                      ‘‘(ii) a determination by the State or unit of local
                government in possession of the sample that the case
                is unfounded; or
                      ‘‘(iii) a declaration by the victim of the crime
                involved that the act constituting the basis of the crime
                was not committed.
                ‘‘(C) POSSESSION.—
                      ‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘possession’, used with
                respect to possession of a sample of sexual assault
                evidence by a State or unit of local government,
                includes possession by an individual who is acting
                as an agent of the State or unit of local government
                for the collection of the sample.
                      ‘‘(ii) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in clause
                (i) shall be construed to create or amend any Federal
                rights or privileges for non-governmental vendor lab-
                oratories described in regulations promulgated under
                section 210303 of the DNA Identification Act of 1994
                (42 U.S.C. 14131).
    ‘‘(o) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROTOCOLS, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE,
AND DEFINITIONS.—
          ‘‘(1) PROTOCOLS AND PRACTICES.—Not later than 18 months
    after the date of enactment of the SAFER Act of 2013, the
    Director, in consultation with Federal, State, and local law
    enforcement agencies and government laboratories, shall
    develop and publish a description of protocols and practices
    the Director considers appropriate for the accurate, timely,
    and effective collection and processing of DNA evidence,
                                S. 47—78

    including protocols and practices specific to sexual assault
    cases, which shall address appropriate steps in the investigation
    of cases that might involve DNA evidence, including—
               ‘‘(A) how to determine—
                     ‘‘(i) which evidence is to be collected by law enforce-
               ment personnel and forwarded for testing;
                     ‘‘(ii) the preferred order in which evidence from
               the same case is to be tested; and
                     ‘‘(iii) what information to take into account when
               establishing the order in which evidence from different
               cases is to be tested;
               ‘‘(B) the establishment of a reasonable period of time
         in which evidence is to be forwarded by emergency response
         providers, law enforcement personnel, and prosecutors to
         a laboratory for testing;
               ‘‘(C) the establishment of reasonable periods of time
         in which each stage of analytical laboratory testing is to
         be completed;
               ‘‘(D) systems to encourage communication within a
         State or unit of local government among emergency
         response providers, law enforcement personnel, prosecu-
         tors, courts, defense counsel, crime laboratory personnel,
         and crime victims regarding the status of crime scene evi-
         dence to be tested; and
               ‘‘(E) standards for conducting the audit of the backlog
         for DNA case work in sexual assault cases required under
         subsection (n).
         ‘‘(2) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING.—The Director
    shall make available technical assistance and training to sup-
    port States and units of local government in adopting and
    implementing the protocols and practices developed under para-
    graph (1) on and after the date on which the protocols and
    practices are published.
         ‘‘(3) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the terms ‘awaiting
    testing’ and ‘possession’ have the meanings given those terms
    in subsection (n).’’.
SEC. 1003. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
     Not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year for
which a grant is made for the purpose described in section 2(a)(7)
of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000, as amended
by section 1002, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress
a report that—
          (1) lists the States and units of local government that
     have been awarded such grants and the amount of the grant
     received by each such State or unit of local government;
          (2) states the number of extensions granted by the Attorney
     General under section 2(n)(3) of the DNA Analysis Backlog
     Elimination Act of 2000, as added by section 1002; and
          (3) summarizes the processing status of the samples of
     sexual assault evidence identified in Sexual Assault Forensic
     Evidence Reports established under section 2(n)(4) of the DNA
     Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000, including the number
     of samples that have not been tested.
SEC. 1004. REDUCING THE RAPE KIT BACKLOG.
     Section 2(c)(3) of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act
of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 14135(c)(3)) is amended—
                              S. 47—79

     (a) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘2014’’ and inserting
‘‘2018’’; and
     (b) by adding at the end the following:
                 ‘‘(C) For each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018, not
           less than 75 percent of the total grant amounts shall be
           awarded for a combination of purposes under paragraphs
           (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a).’’.
SEC. 1005. OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY.
    All grants awarded by the Department of Justice that are
authorized under this title shall be subject to the following:
         (1) AUDIT REQUIREMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2013,
    and each fiscal year thereafter, the Inspector General of the
    Department of Justice shall conduct audits of recipients of
    grants under this title to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse
    of funds by grantees. The Inspector General shall determine
    the appropriate number of grantees to be audited each year.
         (2) MANDATORY EXCLUSION.—A recipient of grant funds
    under this title that is found to have an unresolved audit
    finding shall not be eligible to receive grant funds under this
    title during the 2 fiscal years beginning after the 12-month
    period described in paragraph (5).
         (3) PRIORITY.—In awarding grants under this title, the
    Attorney General shall give priority to eligible entities that,
    during the 3 fiscal years before submitting an application for
    a grant under this title, did not have an unresolved audit
    finding showing a violation in the terms or conditions of a
    Department of Justice grant program.
         (4) REIMBURSEMENT.—If an entity is awarded grant funds
    under this Act during the 2-fiscal-year period in which the
    entity is barred from receiving grants under paragraph (2),
    the Attorney General shall—
              (A) deposit an amount equal to the grant funds that
         were improperly awarded to the grantee into the General
         Fund of the Treasury; and
              (B) seek to recoup the costs of the repayment to the
         fund from the grant recipient that was erroneously awarded
         grant funds.
         (5) DEFINED TERM.—In this section, the term ‘‘unresolved
    audit finding’’ means an audit report finding in the final audit
    report of the Inspector General of the Department of Justice
    that the grantee has utilized grant funds for an unauthorized
    expenditure or otherwise unallowable cost that is not closed
    or resolved within a 12-month period beginning on the date
    when the final audit report is issued.
         (6) NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION REQUIREMENTS.—
              (A) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this section and the
         grant programs described in this title, the term ‘‘ ‘nonprofit
         organization’ ’’ means an organization that is described in
         section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
         and is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such
         Code.(B) PROHIBITION.—The Attorney General shall not
         award a grant under any grant program described in this
         title to a nonprofit organization that holds money in off-
         shore accounts for the purpose of avoiding paying the tax
                         S. 47—80

     described in section 511(a) of the Internal Revenue Code
     of 1986.
          (C) DISCLOSURE.—Each nonprofit organization that is
     awarded a grant under a grant program described in this
     title and uses the procedures prescribed in regulations
     to create a rebuttable presumption of reasonableness for
     the compensation of its officers, directors, trustees and
     key employees, shall disclose to the Attorney General, in
     the application for the grant, the process for determining
     such compensation, including the independent persons
     involved in reviewing and approving such compensation,
     the comparability data used, and contemporaneous
     substantiation of the deliberation and decision. Upon
     request, the Attorney General shall make the information
     disclosed under this subsection available for public inspec-
     tion.
     (7) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—Unless otherwise explicitly
provided in authorizing legislation, not more than 7.5 percent
of the amounts authorized to be appropriated under this title
may be used by the Attorney General for salaries and adminis-
trative expenses of the Department of Justice.
     (8) CONFERENCE EXPENDITURES.—
          (A) LIMITATION.—No amounts authorized to be appro-
     priated to the Department of Justice under this title may
     be used by the Attorney General or by any individual
     or organization awarded discretionary funds through a
     cooperative agreement under this Act, to host or support
     any expenditure for conferences that uses more than
     $20,000 in Department funds, unless the Deputy Attorney
     General or the appropriate Assistant Attorney General,
     Director, or principal deputy as the Deputy Attorney Gen-
     eral may designate, provides prior written authorization
     that the funds may be expended to host a conference.
          (B) WRITTEN APPROVAL.—Written approval under
     subparagraph (A) shall include a written estimate of all
     costs associated with the conference, including the cost
     of all food and beverages, audio/visual equipment, hono-
     raria for speakers, and any entertainment.
          (C) REPORT.—The Deputy Attorney General shall
     submit an annual report to the Committee on the Judiciary
     of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the
     House of Representatives on all conference expenditures
     approved by operation of this paragraph.
     (9) PROHIBITION ON LOBBYING ACTIVITY.—
          (A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts authorized to be appro-
     priated under this title may not be utilized by any grant
     recipient to—
               (i) lobby any representative of the Department of
          Justice regarding the award of grant funding; or
               (ii) lobby any representative of a Federal, state,
          local, or tribal government regarding the award of
          grant funding.
          (B) PENALTY.—If the Attorney General determines that
     any recipient of a grant under this title has violated
     subparagraph (A), the Attorney General shall—
               (i) require the grant recipient to repay the grant
          in full; and
                               S. 47—81

                 (ii) prohibit the grant recipient from receiving
             another grant under this title for not less than 5 years.
SEC. 1006. SUNSET.
     Effective on December 31, 2018, subsections (a)(6) and (n) of
section 2 of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000
(42 U.S.C. 14135(a)(6) and (n)) are repealed.

           TITLE XI—OTHER MATTERS
SEC. 1101. SEXUAL ABUSE IN CUSTODIAL SETTINGS.
    (a) SUITS BY PRISONERS.—Section 7(e) of the Civil Rights of
Institutionalized Persons Act (42 U.S.C. 1997e(e)) is amended by
inserting before the period at the end the following: ‘‘or the commis-
sion of a sexual act (as defined in section 2246 of title 18, United
States Code)’’.
    (b) UNITED STATES AS DEFENDANT.—Section 1346(b)(2) of title
28, United States Code, is amended by inserting before the period
at the end the following: ‘‘or the commission of a sexual act (as
defined in section 2246 of title 18)’’.
    (c) ADOPTION AND EFFECT OF NATIONAL STANDARDS.—Section
8 of the Prison Rape Elimination Act of 2003 (42 U.S.C. 15607)
is amended—
          (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (e); and
          (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ‘‘(c) APPLICABILITY TO DETENTION FACILITIES OPERATED BY THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.—
          ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days after the date
    of enactment of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization
    Act of 2013, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall publish
    a final rule adopting national standards for the detection,
    prevention, reduction, and punishment of rape and sexual
    assault in facilities that maintain custody of aliens detained
    for a violation of the immigrations laws of the United States.
          ‘‘(2) APPLICABILITY.—The standards adopted under para-
    graph (1) shall apply to detention facilities operated by the
    Department of Homeland Security and to detention facilities
    operated under contract with the Department.
          ‘‘(3) COMPLIANCE.—The Secretary of Homeland Security
    shall—    ‘‘(A) assess compliance with the standards adopted
          under paragraph (1) on a regular basis; and
                ‘‘(B) include the results of the assessments in perform-
          ance evaluations of facilities completed by the Department
          of Homeland Security.
          ‘‘(4) CONSIDERATIONS.—In adopting standards under para-
    graph (1), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall give due
    consideration to the recommended national standards provided
    by the Commission under section 7(e).
          ‘‘(5) DEFINITION.—As used in this section, the term ‘deten-
    tion facilities operated under contract with the Department’
    includes, but is not limited to contract detention facilities and
    detention facilities operated through an intergovernmental
    service agreement with the Department of Homeland Security.
    ‘‘(d) APPLICABILITY TO CUSTODIAL FACILITIES OPERATED BY THE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES.—
                              S. 47—82

        ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days after the date
    of enactment of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization
    Act of 2013, the Secretary of Health and Human Services
    shall publish a final rule adopting national standards for the
    detection, prevention, reduction, and punishment of rape and
    sexual assault in facilities that maintain custody of unaccom-
    panied alien children (as defined in section 462(g) of the Home-
    land Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g))).
        ‘‘(2) APPLICABILITY.—The standards adopted under para-
    graph (1) shall apply to facilities operated by the Department
    of Health and Human Services and to facilities operated under
    contract with the Department.
        ‘‘(3) COMPLIANCE.—The Secretary of Health and Human
    Services shall—
              ‘‘(A) assess compliance with the standards adopted
        under paragraph (1) on a regular basis; and
              ‘‘(B) include the results of the assessments in perform-
        ance evaluations of facilities completed by the Department
        of Health and Human Services.
        ‘‘(4) CONSIDERATIONS.—In adopting standards under para-
    graph (1), the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
    give due consideration to the recommended national standards
    provided by the Commission under section 7(e).’’.
SEC. 1102. ANONYMOUS ONLINE HARASSMENT.
    Section 223(a)(1) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
223(a)(1)) is amended—
         (1) in subparagraph (A), in the undesignated matter fol-
    lowing clause (ii), by striking ‘‘annoy,’’;
         (2) in subparagraph (C)—
              (A) by striking ‘‘annoy,’’; and
              (B) by striking ‘‘harass any person at the called number
         or who receives the communication’’ and inserting ‘‘harass
         any specific person’’; and
         (3) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘harass any person
    at the called number or who receives the communication’’ and
    inserting ‘‘harass any specific person’’.
SEC. 1103. STALKER DATABASE.
    Section 40603 of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994
(42 U.S.C. 14032) is amended by striking ‘‘$3,000,000’’ and all
that follows and inserting ‘‘$3,000,000 for fiscal years 2014 through
2018.’’.
SEC. 1104. FEDERAL VICTIM ASSISTANTS REAUTHORIZATION.
    Section 40114 of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994
(Public Law 103–322; 108 Stat. 1910) is amended by striking ‘‘fiscal
years 2007 through 2011’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal years 2014 through
2018’’.
SEC. 1105. CHILD ABUSE TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR JUDICIAL PER-
            SONNEL AND PRACTITIONERS REAUTHORIZATION.
    Subtitle C of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (42
U.S.C. 13024) is amended in subsection (a) by striking ‘‘$2,300,000’’
and all that follows and inserting ‘‘$2,300,000 for each of fiscal
years 2014 through 2018.’’.
                              S. 47—83

     TITLE XII—TRAFFICKING VICTIMS
               PROTECTION
     Subtitle A—Combating International
            Trafficking in Persons
SEC. 1201. REGIONAL STRATEGIES FOR COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN
            PERSONS.
     Section 105 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000
(22 U.S.C. 7103) is amended—
           (1) in subsection (d)(7)(J), by striking ‘‘section 105(f) of
     this division’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection (g)’’;
           (2) in subsection (e)(2)—
                (A) by striking ‘‘(2) COORDINATION OF CERTAIN ACTIVI-
           TIES.—’’ and all that follows through ‘‘exploitation.’’;
                (B) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as paragraph
           (2), and moving such paragraph, as so redesignated, 2
           ems to the left; and
                (C) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as subpara-
           graphs (A) and (B), respectively, and moving such subpara-
           graphs, as so redesignated, 2 ems to the left;
           (3) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
           (4) by inserting after subsection (e) the following:
     ‘‘(f) REGIONAL STRATEGIES FOR COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PER-
SONS.—Each regional bureau in the Department of State shall
contribute to the realization of the anti-trafficking goals and objec-
tives of the Secretary of State. Each year, in cooperation with
the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons, each
regional bureau shall submit a list of anti-trafficking goals and
objectives to the Secretary of State for each country in the
geographic area of responsibilities of the regional bureau. Host
governments shall be informed of the goals and objectives for their
particular country and, to the extent possible, host government
officials should be consulted regarding the goals and objectives.’’.
SEC. 1202. PARTNERSHIPS AGAINST SIGNIFICANT TRAFFICKING IN
            PERSONS.
     The Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 is amended
by inserting after section 105 (22 U.S.C. 7103) the following:
‘‘SEC. 105A. CREATING, BUILDING, AND STRENGTHENING PARTNER-
             SHIPS AGAINST SIGNIFICANT TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS.
     ‘‘(a) DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to promote collaboration and cooperation—
           ‘‘(1) between the United States Government and govern-
     ments listed on the annual Trafficking in Persons Report;
     and   ‘‘(2) between foreign governments and civil society actors;
           ‘‘(3) between the United States Government and private
     sector entities.
     ‘‘(b) PARTNERSHIPS.—The Director of the office established
pursuant to section 105(e)(1) of this Act, in coordination and
cooperation with other officials at the Department of State, officials
at the Department of Labor, and other relevant officials of the
                                S. 47—84

United States Government, shall promote, build, and sustain part-
nerships between the United States Government and private enti-
ties, including foundations, universities, corporations, community-
based organizations, and other nongovernmental organizations, to
ensure that—
           ‘‘(1) United States citizens do not use any item, product,
     or material produced or extracted with the use and labor from
     victims of severe forms of trafficking; and
           ‘‘(2) such entities do not contribute to trafficking in persons
     involving sexual exploitation.
     ‘‘(c) PROGRAM TO ADDRESS EMERGENCY SITUATIONS.—The Sec-
retary of State, acting through the Director established pursuant
to section 105(e)(1) of this Act, is authorized to establish a fund
to assist foreign governments in meeting unexpected, urgent needs
in prevention of trafficking in persons, protection of victims, and
prosecution of trafficking offenders.
     ‘‘(d) CHILD PROTECTION COMPACTS.—
           ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State, in consultation
     with the Administrator of the United States Agency for Inter-
     national Development, the Secretary of Labor, and the heads
     of other relevant agencies, is authorized to provide assistance
     under this section for each country that enters into a child
     protection compact with the United States to support policies
     and programs that—
                 ‘‘(A) prevent and respond to violence, exploitation, and
           abuse against children; and
                 ‘‘(B) measurably reduce the trafficking of minors by
           building sustainable and effective systems of justice,
           prevention, and protection.
           ‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—A child protection compact under this sub-
     section shall establish a multi-year plan for achieving shared
     objectives in furtherance of the purposes of this Act. The com-
     pact should take into account, if applicable, the national child
     protection strategies and national action plans for human traf-
     ficking of a country, and shall describe—
                 ‘‘(A) the specific objectives the foreign government and
           the United States Government expect to achieve during
           the term of the compact;
                 ‘‘(B) the responsibilities of the foreign government and
           the United States Government in the achievement of such
           objectives;
                 ‘‘(C) the particular programs or initiatives to be under-
           taken in the achievement of such objectives and the amount
           of funding to be allocated to each program or initiative
           by both countries;
                 ‘‘(D) regular outcome indicators to monitor and
           measure progress toward achieving such objectives;
                 ‘‘(E) a multi-year financial plan, including the esti-
           mated amount of contributions by the United States
           Government and the foreign government, and proposed
           mechanisms to implement the plan and provide oversight;
                 ‘‘(F) how a country strategy will be developed to sustain
           progress made toward achieving such objectives after
           expiration of the compact; and
                 ‘‘(G) how child protection data will be collected, tracked,
           and managed to provide strengthened case management
           and policy planning.
                               S. 47—85

         ‘‘(3) FORM OF ASSISTANCE.—Assistance under this sub-
    section may be provided in the form of grants, cooperative
    agreements, or contracts to or with national governments,
    regional or local governmental units, or non-governmental
    organizations or private entities with expertise in the protection
    of victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.
         ‘‘(4) ELIGIBLE COUNTRIES.—The Secretary of State, in con-
    sultation with the agencies set forth in paragraph (1) and
    relevant officers of the Department of Justice, shall select coun-
    tries with which to enter into child protection compacts. The
    selection of countries under this paragraph shall be based on—
         and   ‘‘(A) the selection criteria set forth in paragraph (5);
               ‘‘(B) objective, documented, and quantifiable indicators,
         to the maximum extent possible.
         ‘‘(5) SELECTION CRITERIA.—A country shall be selected
    under paragraph (4) on the basis of criteria developed by the
    Secretary of State in consultation with the Administrator of
    the United States Agency for International Development and
    the Secretary of Labor. Such criteria shall include—
               ‘‘(A) a documented high prevalence of trafficking in
         persons within the country; and
               ‘‘(B) demonstrated political motivation and sustained
         commitment by the government of such country to under-
         take meaningful measures to address severe forms of traf-
         ficking in persons, including prevention, protection of vic-
         tims, and the enactment and enforcement of anti-trafficking
         laws against perpetrators.
         ‘‘(6) SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION OF ASSISTANCE.—
               ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may suspend or
         terminate assistance provided under this subsection in
         whole or in part for a country or entity if the Secretary
         determines that—
                     ‘‘(i) the country or entity is engaged in activities
               that are contrary to the national security interests
               of the United States;
                     ‘‘(ii) the country or entity has engaged in a pattern
               of actions inconsistent with the criteria used to deter-
               mine the eligibility of the country or entity, as the
               case may be; or
                     ‘‘(iii) the country or entity has failed to adhere
               to its responsibilities under the Compact.
               ‘‘(B) REINSTATEMENT.—The Secretary may reinstate
         assistance for a country or entity suspended or terminated
         under this paragraph only if the Secretary determines that
         the country or entity has demonstrated a commitment to
         correcting each condition for which assistance was sus-
         pended or terminated under subparagraph (A).’’.
SEC. 1203. PROTECTION AND ASSISTANCE FOR VICTIMS OF TRAF-
            FICKING.
     (a) TASK FORCE ACTIVITIES.—Section 105(d)(6) of the Traf-
ficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(d)(6)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘, and make reasonable efforts to distribute
information to enable all relevant Federal Government agencies
                               S. 47—86

to publicize the National Human Trafficking Resource Center Hot-
line on their websites, in all headquarters offices, and in all field
offices throughout the United States’’ before the period at the end.
     (b) CONGRESSIONAL BRIEFING.—Section 107(a)(2) of the Traf-
ficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7105(a)(2)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘and shall brief Congress annually on such
efforts’’ before the period at the end.
SEC. 1204. MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR THE ELIMINATION OF TRAF-
            FICKING.
    Section 108(b) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000
(22 U.S.C. 7106(b)) is amended—
         (1) in paragraph (3)—
               (A) by striking ‘‘peacekeeping’’ and inserting ‘‘diplo-
         matic, peacekeeping,’’;
               (B) by striking ‘‘, and measures’’ and inserting ‘‘, a
         transparent system for remediating or punishing such
         public officials as a deterrent, measures’’; and
               (C) by inserting ‘‘, effective bilateral, multilateral, or
         regional information sharing and cooperation arrangements
         with other countries, and effective policies or laws regu-
         lating foreign labor recruiters and holding them civilly
         and criminally liable for fraudulent recruiting’’ before the
         period at the end;
         (2) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘and has entered into
    bilateral, multilateral, or regional law enforcement cooperation
    and coordination arrangements with other countries’’ before
    the period at the end;
         (3) in paragraph (7)—
               (A) by inserting ‘‘, including diplomats and soldiers,’’
         after ‘‘public officials’’;
               (B) by striking ‘‘peacekeeping’’ and inserting ‘‘diplo-
         matic, peacekeeping,’’; and
               (C) by inserting ‘‘A government’s failure to appro-
         priately address public allegations against such public offi-
         cials, especially once such officials have returned to their
         home countries, shall be considered inaction under these
         criteria.’’ after ‘‘such trafficking.’’;
         (4) by redesignating paragraphs (9) through (11) as para-
    graphs (10) through (12), respectively; and
         (5) by inserting after paragraph (8) the following:
         ‘‘(9) Whether the government has entered into effective,
    transparent partnerships, cooperative arrangements, or agree-
    ments that have resulted in concrete and measurable outcomes
    with—    ‘‘(A) domestic civil society organizations, private sector
         entities, or international nongovernmental organizations,
         or into multilateral or regional arrangements or agree-
         ments, to assist the government’s efforts to prevent traf-
         ficking, protect victims, and punish traffickers; or
               ‘‘(B) the United States toward agreed goals and objec-
         tives in the collective fight against trafficking.’’.
SEC. 1205. BEST PRACTICES IN TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS ERADI-
            CATION.
    Section 110(b) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000
(22 U.S.C. 7107(b)) is amended—
        (1) in paragraph (1)—
                               S. 47—87

              (A) by striking ‘‘with respect to the status of severe
         forms of trafficking in persons that shall include—’’ and
         inserting ‘‘describing the anti-trafficking efforts of the
         United States and foreign governments according to the
         minimum standards and criteria enumerated in section
         108, and the nature and scope of trafficking in persons
         in each country and analysis of the trend lines for indi-
         vidual governmental efforts. The report should include—
         ’’;
              (B) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and
         inserting a semicolon;
              (C) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period at the
         end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
              (D) by inserting at the end the following:
              ‘‘(G) a section entitled ‘Promising Practices in the
         Eradication of Trafficking in Persons’ to highlight effective
         practices and use of innovation and technology in preven-
         tion, protection, prosecution, and partnerships, including
         by foreign governments, the private sector, and domestic
         civil society actors.’’;
         (2) by striking paragraph (2);
         (3) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs
    (2) and (3), respectively; and
         (4) in paragraph (2), as redesignated, by adding at the
    end the following:
              ‘‘(E) PUBLIC NOTICE.—Not later than 30 days after
         notifying Congress of each country determined to have
         met the requirements under subclauses (I) through (III)
         of subparagraph (D)(ii), the Secretary of State shall provide
         a detailed description of the credible evidence supporting
         such determination on a publicly available website main-
         tained by the Department of State.’’.
SEC. 1206. PROTECTIONS FOR DOMESTIC WORKERS AND OTHER NON-
            IMMIGRANTS.
    Section 202 of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims
Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (8 U.S.C. 1375b) is
amended—
         (1) in subsection (a)—
              (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ‘‘AND VIDEO
         FOR CONSULAR WAITING ROOMS’’ after ‘‘INFORMATION PAM-
         PHLET’’; and
              (B) in paragraph (1)—
                   (i) by inserting ‘‘and video’’ after ‘‘information pam-
              phlet’’; and
                   (ii) by adding at the end the following: ‘‘The video
              shall be distributed and shown in consular waiting
              rooms in embassies and consulates appropriate to the
              circumstances that are determined to have the greatest
              concentration of employment or education-based non-
              immigrant visa applicants, and where sufficient video
              facilities exist in waiting or other rooms where
              applicants wait or convene. The Secretary of State
              is authorized to augment video facilities in such con-
              sulates or embassies in order to fulfill the purposes
              of this section.’’;
                              S. 47—88

          (2) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘and video’’ after
    ‘‘information pamphlet’’;
          (3) in subsection (c)—
                (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and produce or
          dub the video’’ after ‘‘information pamphlet’’; and
                (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘and the video pro-
          duced or dubbed’’ after ‘‘translated’’; and
          (4) in subsection (d)—
                (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and video’’ after
          ‘‘information pamphlet’’;
                (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘and video’’ after
          ‘‘information pamphlet’’; and
                (C) by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(4) DEADLINE FOR VIDEO DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBU-
    TION.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment
    of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013,
    the Secretary of State shall make available the video developed
    under subsection (a) produced or dubbed in all the languages
    referred to in subsection (c).’’.
SEC. 1207. PREVENTION OF CHILD MARRIAGE.
    (a) IN GENERAL.—Section 106 of the Trafficking Victims Protec-
tion Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7104) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
    ‘‘(j) PREVENTION OF CHILD TRAFFICKING THROUGH CHILD MAR-
RIAGE.—The Secretary of State shall establish and implement a
multi-year, multi-sectoral strategy—
          ‘‘(1) to prevent child marriage;
          ‘‘(2) to promote the empowerment of girls at risk of child
    marriage in developing countries;
          ‘‘(3) that should address the unique needs, vulnerabilities,
    and potential of girls younger than 18 years of age in developing
    countries;
          ‘‘(4) that targets areas in developing countries with high
    prevalence of child marriage; and
          ‘‘(5) that includes diplomatic and programmatic initia-
    tives.’’.
    (b) INCLUSION OF CHILD MARRIAGE STATUS IN REPORTS.—The
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.) is amended—
          (1) in section 116 (22 U.S.C. 2151n), by adding at the
    end the following:
    ‘‘(g) CHILD MARRIAGE STATUS.—
          ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The report required under subsection
    (d) shall include, for each country in which child marriage
    is prevalent, a description of the status of the practice of child
    marriage in such country.
          ‘‘(2) DEFINED TERM.—In this subsection, the term ‘child
    marriage’ means the marriage of a girl or boy who is—
                ‘‘(A) younger than the minimum age for marriage under
          the laws of the country in which such girl or boy is a
          resident; or
                ‘‘(B) younger than 18 years of age, if no such law
          exists.’’; and
          (2) in section 502B (22 U.S.C. 2304), by adding at the
    end the following:
    ‘‘(i) CHILD MARRIAGE STATUS.—
                              S. 47—89

         ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The report required under subsection
    (b) shall include, for each country in which child marriage
    is prevalent, a description of the status of the practice of child
    marriage in such country.
         ‘‘(2) DEFINED TERM.—In this subsection, the term ‘child
    marriage’ means the marriage of a girl or boy who is—
               ‘‘(A) younger than the minimum age for marriage under
         the laws of the country in which such girl or boy is a
         resident; or
               ‘‘(B) younger than 18 years of age, if no such law
         exists.’’.
SEC. 1208. CHILD SOLDIERS.
    Section 404 of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims
Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2370c–1) is
amended—(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘(b), (c), and (d), the
    authorities contained in section 516 or 541 of the Foreign
    Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321j or 2347)’’ and inserting
    ‘‘(b) through (f), the authorities contained in sections 516, 541,
    and 551 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
    2321j, 2347, and 2348)’’; and
          (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ‘‘(f) EXCEPTION FOR PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS.—The limita-
tion set forth in subsection (a) that relates to section 551 of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to programs that
support military professionalization, security sector reform, height-
ened respect for human rights, peacekeeping preparation, or the
demobilization and reintegration of child soldiers.’’.

    Subtitle B—Combating Trafficking in
        Persons in the United States
  PART I—PENALTIES AGAINST TRAFFICKERS
           AND OTHER CRIMES
SEC. 1211. CRIMINAL TRAFFICKING OFFENSES.
     (a) RICO AMENDMENT.—Section 1961(1)(B) of title 18, United
States Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘section 1351 (relating to
fraud in foreign labor contracting),’’ before ‘‘section 1425’’.
     (b) ENGAGING IN ILLICIT SEXUAL CONDUCT IN FOREIGN
PLACES.—Section 2423(c) of title 18, United States Code, is amended
by inserting ‘‘or resides, either temporarily or permanently, in a
foreign country’’ after ‘‘commerce’’.
     (c) UNLAWFUL CONDUCT WITH RESPECT TO DOCUMENTS.—
          (1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 77 of title 18, United States
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘§ 1597. Unlawful conduct with respect to immigration docu-
            ments
     ‘‘(a) DESTRUCTION, CONCEALMENT, REMOVAL, CONFISCATION, OR
POSSESSION OF IMMIGRATION DOCUMENTS.—It shall be unlawful
for any person to knowingly destroy, conceal, remove, confiscate,
or possess, an actual or purported passport or other immigration
document of another individual —
                                    S. 47—90

          ‘‘(1) in the course of violating section 1351 of this title
    or section 274 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
    1324);
          ‘‘(2) with intent to violate section 1351 of this title or
    section 274 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
    1324); or
          ‘‘(3) in order to, without lawful authority, maintain, pre-
    vent, or restrict the labor of services of the individual.
    ‘‘(b) PENALTY.—Any person who violates subsection (a) shall
be fined under this title, imprisoned for not more than 1 year,
or both.
    ‘‘(c) OBSTRUCTION.—Any person who knowingly obstructs,
attempts to obstruct, or in any way interferes with or prevents
the enforcement of this section, shall be subject to the penalties
described in subsection (b).’’.
          (2) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table
    of sections for chapter 77 of title 18, United States Code,
    is amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘1597. Unlawful conduct with respect to immigration documents.’’.
SEC. 1212. CIVIL REMEDIES; CLARIFYING DEFINITION.
     (a) CIVIL REMEDY FOR PERSONAL INJURIES.—Section 2255 of
title 18, United States Code, is amended—
          (1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘section 2241(c)’’ and
     inserting ‘‘section 1589, 1590, 1591, 2241(c)’’; and
          (2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘six years’’ and inserting
     ‘‘10 years’’.
     (b) DEFINITION.—
          (1) IN GENERAL.—Section 103 of the Trafficking Victims
     Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102) is amended—
               (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (14) as
          paragraphs (2) through (15), respectively;
               (B) by inserting before paragraph (2), as redesignated,
          the following:
          ‘‘(1) ABUSE OR THREATENED ABUSE OF LAW OR LEGAL
     PROCESS.—The term ‘abuse or threatened abuse of the legal
     process’ means the use or threatened use of a law or legal
     process, whether administrative, civil, or criminal, in any
     manner or for any purpose for which the law was not designed,
     in order to exert pressure on another person to cause that
     person to take some action or refrain from taking some action.’’;
               (C) in paragraph (14), as redesignated, by striking
          ‘‘paragraph (8)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (9)’’; and
               (D) in paragraph (15), as redesignated, by striking
          ‘‘paragraph (8) or (9)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (9) or (10)’’.
          (2) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
               (A) TRAFFICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION ACT OF 2000.—
          The Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C.
          7101 et eq.) is amended—
                    (i) in section 110(e) (22 U.S.C. 7107(e))—
                          (I) by striking ‘‘section 103(7)(A)’’ and inserting
                    ‘‘section 103(8)(A)’’; and
                          (II) by striking ‘‘section 103(7)(B)’’ and
                    inserting ‘‘section 103(8)(B)’’; and
                    (ii) in section 113(g)(2) (22 U.S.C. 7110(g)(2)), by
               striking ‘‘section 103(8)(A)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
               103(9)(A)’’. S. 47—91
               (B) NORTH KOREAN HUMAN RIGHTS ACT OF 2004.—Sec-
          tion 203(b)(2) of the North Korean Human Rights Act of
          2004 (22 U.S.C. 7833(b)(2)) is amended by striking ‘‘section
          103(14)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 103(15)’’.
               (C) TRAFFICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION REAUTHORIZA-
          TION ACT OF 2005.—Section 207 of the Trafficking Victims
          Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044e)
          is amended—
                    (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘section 103(8)’’
               and inserting ‘‘section 103(9)’’;
                    (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘section 103(9)’’
               and inserting ‘‘section 103(10)’’; and
                    (iii) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘section 103(3)’’
               and inserting ‘‘section 103(4)’’.
               (D) VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN AND DEPARTMENT OF
          JUSTICE REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2005.—Section 111(a)(1)
          of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice
          Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044f(a)(1)) is
          amended by striking ‘‘paragraph (8)’’ and inserting ‘‘para-
          graph (9)’’.

        PART II—ENSURING AVAILABILITY OF
       POSSIBLE WITNESSES AND INFORMANTS
SEC.    1221.    PROTECTIONS FOR TRAFFICKING             VICTIMS     WHO
                COOPERATE WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT.
      Section 101(a)(15)(T)(ii)(III) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(T)(ii)(III) is amended by inserting ‘‘, or
any adult or minor children of a derivative beneficiary of the alien,
as’’ after ‘‘age’’.
SEC. 1222. PROTECTION AGAINST FRAUD IN FOREIGN LABOR CON-
            TRACTING.
    Section 101(a)(15)(U)(iii) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(U)(iii)) is amended by inserting ‘‘fraud
in foreign labor contracting (as defined in section 1351 of title
18, United States Code);’’ after ‘‘perjury;’’.

    PART III—ENSURING INTERAGENCY
 COORDINATION AND EXPANDED REPORTING
SEC. 1231. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
    Section 105(d)(7) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of
2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(d)(7)) is amended—
         (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) through (J) as sub-
    paragraphs (I) through (O);
         (2) by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C) and inserting
    the following:
              ‘‘(B) the number of persons who have been granted
         continued presence in the United States under section
         107(c)(3) during the preceding fiscal year and the mean
         and median time taken to adjudicate applications sub-
         mitted under such section, including the time from the
         receipt of an application by law enforcement to the issuance
         of continued presence, and a description of any efforts
         being taken to reduce the adjudication and processing time
                           S. 47—92

     while ensuring the safe and competent processing of the
     applications;
           ‘‘(C) the number of persons who have applied for, been
     granted, or been denied a visa or otherwise provided status
     under subparagraph (T)(i) or (U)(i) of section 101(a)(15)
     of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
     1101(a)(15)) during the preceding fiscal year;
           ‘‘(D) the number of persons who have applied for, been
     granted, or been denied a visa or status under clause
     (ii) of section 101(a)(15)(T) of the Immigration and Nation-
     ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(T)) during the preceding
     fiscal year, broken down by the number of such persons
     described in subclauses (I), (II), and (III) of such clause
     (ii); ‘‘(E) the amount of Federal funds expended in direct
     benefits paid to individuals described in subparagraph (D)
     in conjunction with T visa status;
           ‘‘(F) the number of persons who have applied for, been
     granted, or been denied a visa or status under section
     101(a)(15)(U)(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act
     (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(U)(i)) during the preceding fiscal year;
           ‘‘(G) the mean and median time in which it takes
     to adjudicate applications submitted under the provisions
     of law set forth in subparagraph (C), including the time
     between the receipt of an application and the issuance
     of a visa and work authorization;
           ‘‘(H) any efforts being taken to reduce the adjudication
     and processing time, while ensuring the safe and competent
     processing of the applications;’’;
     (3) in subparagraph (N)(iii), as redesignated, by striking
‘‘and’’ at the end;
     (4) in subparagraph (O), as redesignated, by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
     (5) by adding at the end the following:
           ‘‘(P) the activities undertaken by Federal agencies to
     train appropriate State, tribal, and local government and
     law enforcement officials to identify victims of severe forms
     of trafficking, including both sex and labor trafficking;
           ‘‘(Q) the activities undertaken by Federal agencies in
     cooperation with State, tribal, and local law enforcement
     officials to identify, investigate, and prosecute offenses
     under sections 1581, 1583, 1584, 1589, 1590, 1592, and
     1594 of title 18, United States Code, or equivalent State
     offenses, including, in each fiscal year—
                 ‘‘(i) the number, age, gender, country of origin,
           and citizenship status of victims identified for each
           offense;
                 ‘‘(ii) the number of individuals charged, and the
           number of individuals convicted, under each offense;
                 ‘‘(iii) the number of individuals referred for
           prosecution for State offenses, including offenses
           relating to the purchasing of commercial sex acts;
                 ‘‘(iv) the number of victims granted continued pres-
           ence in the United States under section 107(c)(3); and
                 ‘‘(v) the number of victims granted a visa or other-
           wise provided status under subparagraph (T)(i) or
                             S. 47—93

             (U)(i) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and
             Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)); and
             ‘‘(R) the activities undertaken by the Department of
        Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services
        to meet the specific needs of minor victims of domestic
        trafficking, including actions taken pursuant to subsection
        (f) and section 202(a) of the Trafficking Victims Protection
        Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044(a)), and the
        steps taken to increase cooperation among Federal agencies
        to ensure the effective and efficient use of programs for
        which the victims are eligible.’’.
SEC. 1232. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SECRETARY OF
           LABOR.
    Section 105(b) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2005
(22 U.S.C. 7112(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
        ‘‘(3) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—Not later than December
    1, 2014, and every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary of Labor
    shall submit the list developed under paragraph (2)(C) to Con-
    gress.’’.
SEC. 1233. INFORMATION SHARING TO COMBAT CHILD LABOR AND
            SLAVE LABOR.
    Section 105(a) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2005
(22 U.S.C. 7112(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
        ‘‘(3) INFORMATION SHARING.—The Secretary of State shall,
    on a regular basis, provide information relating to child labor
    and forced labor in the production of goods in violation of
    international standards to the Department of Labor to be used
    in developing the list described in subsection (b)(2)(C).’’.
SEC. 1234. GOVERNMENT TRAINING EFFORTS TO INCLUDE THE
           DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
    Section 107(c)(4) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of
2000 (22 U.S.C. 7105(c)(4)) is amended—
        (1) in the first sentence, by inserting ‘‘the Department
    of Labor, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission,’’
    before ‘‘and the Department’’; and
        (2) in the second sentence, by inserting ‘‘, in consultation
    with the Secretary of Labor,’’ before ‘‘shall provide’’.
SEC. 1235. GAO REPORT ON THE USE OF FOREIGN LABOR CONTRAC-
            TORS.
    (a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United
States shall submit a report on the use of foreign labor contractors
to—    (1) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
         (2) the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
    sions of the Senate;
         (3) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Rep-
    resentatives; and
         (4) the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the
    House of Representatives.
    (b) CONTENTS.—The report under subsection (a) should, to the
extent possible—
         (1) address the role and practices of United States
    employers in—
                             S. 47—94

              (A) the use of labor recruiters or brokers; or
              (B) directly recruiting foreign workers;
         (2) analyze the laws that protect such workers, both over-
    seas and domestically;
         (3) describe the oversight and enforcement mechanisms
    in Federal departments and agencies for such laws; and
    and  (4) identify any gaps that may exist in these protections;
         (5) recommend possible actions for Federal departments
    and agencies to combat any abuses.
    (c) REQUIREMENTS.—The report under subsection (a) shall—
         (1) describe the role of labor recruiters or brokers working
    in countries that are sending workers and receiving funds,
    including any identified involvement in labor abuses;
         (2) describe the role and practices of employers in the
    United States that commission labor recruiters or brokers or
    directly recruit foreign workers;
         (3) describe the role of Federal departments and agencies
    in overseeing and regulating the foreign labor recruitment
    process, including certifying and enforcing under existing regu-
    lations;
         (4) describe the type of jobs and the numbers of positions
    in the United States that have been filled through foreign
    workers during each of the last 8 years, including positions
    within the Federal Government;
         (5) describe any efforts or programs undertaken by Federal,
    State and local government entities to encourage employers,
    directly or indirectly, to use foreign workers or to reward
    employers for using foreign workers; and
         (6) based on the information required under paragraphs
    (1) through (3), identify any common abuses of foreign workers
    and the employment system, including the use of fees and
    debts, and recommendations of actions that could be taken
    by Federal departments and agencies to combat any identified
    abuses.
SEC. 1236. ACCOUNTABILITY.
    All grants awarded by the Attorney General under this title
or an Act amended by this title shall be subject to the following
accountability provisions:
        (1) AUDIT REQUIREMENT.—
             (A) DEFINITION.—In this paragraph, the term ‘‘unre-
        solved audit finding’’ means an audit report finding in
        the final audit report of the Inspector General of the
        Department of Justice that the grantee has used grant
        funds for an unauthorized expenditure or otherwise
        unallowable cost that is not closed or resolved during the
        12-month period beginning on the date on which the final
        audit report is issued
             (B) REQUIREMENT.—Beginning in the first fiscal year
        beginning after the date of enactment of this Act, and
        in each fiscal year thereafter, the Inspector General of
        the Department of Justice shall conduct audits of recipients
        of grants under this title or an Act amended by this title
        to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds by grantees.
        The Inspector General shall determine the appropriate
        number of grantees to be audited each year.
                     S. 47—95

     (C) MANDATORY EXCLUSION.—A recipient of grant funds
under this title or an Act amended by this title that is
found to have an unresolved audit finding shall not be
eligible to receive grant funds under this title or an Act
amended by this title during the first 2 fiscal years begin-
ning after the end of the 12-month period described in
subparagraph (A).
     (D) PRIORITY.—In awarding grants under this title or
an Act amended by this title, the Attorney General shall
give priority to eligible applicants that did not have an
unresolved audit finding during the 3 fiscal years before
submitting an application for a grant under this title or
an Act amended by this title.
     (E) REIMBURSEMENT.—If an entity is awarded grant
funds under this title or an Act amended by this title
during the 2-fiscal-year period during which the entity
is barred from receiving grants under subparagraph (C),
the Attorney General shall—
          (i) deposit an amount equal to the amount of the
     grant funds that were improperly awarded to the
     grantee into the General Fund of the Treasury; and
          (ii) seek to recoup the costs of the repayment to
     the fund from the grant recipient that was erroneously
     awarded grant funds.
(2) NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION REQUIREMENTS.—
     (A) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this paragraph and
the grant programs under this title or an Act amended
by this title, the term ‘‘nonprofit organization’’ means an
organization that is described in section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and is exempt from taxation
under section 501(a) of such Code.
     (B) PROHIBITION.—The Attorney General may not
award a grant under this title or an Act amended by
this title to a nonprofit organization that holds money
in offshore accounts for the purpose of avoiding paying
the tax described in section 511(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986.
     (C) DISCLOSURE.—Each nonprofit organization that is
awarded a grant under this title or an Act amended by
this title and uses the procedures prescribed in regulations
to create a rebuttable presumption of reasonableness for
the compensation of its officers, directors, trustees and
key employees, shall disclose to the Attorney General, in
the application for the grant, the process for determining
such compensation, including the independent persons
involved in reviewing and approving such compensation,
the comparability data used, and contemporaneous
substantiation of the deliberation and decision. Upon
request, the Attorney General shall make the information
disclosed under this subparagraph available for public
inspection.
(3) CONFERENCE EXPENDITURES.—
     (A) LIMITATION.—No amounts authorized to be appro-
priated to the Department of Justice under this title or
an Act amended by this title may be used by the Attorney
General, or by any individual or entity awarded discre-
tionary funds through a cooperative agreement under this
                            S. 47—96

         title or an Act amended by this title, to host or support
         any expenditure for conferences that uses more than
         $20,000 in funds made available to the Department of
         Justice, unless the Deputy Attorney General or the appro-
         priate Assistant Attorney General, Director, or principal
         deputy (as designated by the Deputy Attorney General)
         provides prior written authorization that the funds may
         be expended to host the conference.
              (B) WRITTEN APPROVAL.—Written approval under
         subparagraph (A) shall include a written estimate of all
         costs associated with the conference, including the cost
         of all food, beverages, audio-visual equipment, honoraria
         for speakers, and entertainment.
              (C) REPORT.—The Deputy Attorney General shall
         submit an annual report to the Committee on the Judiciary
         of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the
         House of Representatives on all conference expenditures
         approved under this paragraph.
         (4) ANNUAL CERTIFICATION.—Beginning in the first fiscal
    year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act, the
    Attorney General shall submit, to the Committee on the
    Judiciary and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate
    and the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on
    Appropriations of the House of Representatives, an annual
    certification indicating whether—
              (A) all audits issued by the Office of the Inspector
         General under paragraph (1) have been completed and
         reviewed by the appropriate Assistant Attorney General
         or Director;
              (B) all mandatory exclusions required under paragraph
         (1)(C) have been issued;
              (C) all reimbursements required under paragraph
         (1)(E) have been made; and
              (D) includes a list of any grant recipients excluded
         under paragraph (1) from the previous year.

PART IV—ENHANCING STATE AND LOCAL EF-
 FORTS TO COMBAT TRAFFICKING IN PER-
 SONS
SEC. 1241. ASSISTANCE FOR DOMESTIC MINOR SEX TRAFFICKING VIC-
             TIMS.
     (a) IN GENERAL.—Section 202 of the Trafficking Victims Protec-
tion Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044a) is amended
to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 202. ESTABLISHMENT OF A GRANT PROGRAM TO DEVELOP,
            EXPAND, AND STRENGTHEN ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS FOR
            CERTAIN PERSONS SUBJECT TO TRAFFICKING.
    ‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
          ‘‘(1) ASSISTANT SECRETARY.—The term ‘Assistant Secretary’
    means the Assistant Secretary for Children and Families of
    the Department of Health and Human Services.
          ‘‘(2) ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL.—The term ‘Assistant
    Attorney General’ means the Assistant Attorney General for
    the Office of Justice Programs of the Department of Justice.
                           S. 47—97

     ‘‘(3) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—The term ‘eligible entity’ means a
State or unit of local government that—
           ‘‘(A) has significant criminal activity involving sex traf-
     ficking of minors;
           ‘‘(B) has demonstrated cooperation between Federal,
     State, local, and, where applicable, tribal law enforcement
     agencies, prosecutors, and social service providers in
     addressing sex trafficking of minors;
           ‘‘(C) has developed a workable, multi-disciplinary plan
     to combat sex trafficking of minors, including—
                  ‘‘(i) building or establishing a residential care
           facility for minor victims of sex trafficking;
                  ‘‘(ii) the provision of rehabilitative care to minor
           victims of sex trafficking;
                  ‘‘(iii) the provision of specialized training for law
           enforcement officers and social service providers for
           all forms of sex trafficking, with a focus on sex traf-
           ficking of minors;
                  ‘‘(iv) prevention, deterrence, and prosecution of
           offenses involving sex trafficking of minors;
                  ‘‘(v) cooperation or referral agreements with
           organizations providing outreach or other related serv-
           ices to runaway and homeless youth; and
                  ‘‘(vi) law enforcement protocols or procedures to
           screen all individuals arrested for prostitution, whether
           adult or minor, for victimization by sex trafficking
           and by other crimes, such as sexual assault and
           domestic violence; and
           ‘‘(D) provides assurance that a minor victim of sex
     trafficking shall not be required to collaborate with law
     enforcement to have access to residential care or services
     provided with a grant under this section.
     ‘‘(4) MINOR VICTIM OF SEX TRAFFICKING.—The term ‘minor
victim of sex trafficking’ means an individual who—
           ‘‘(A) is younger than 18 years of age, and is a victim
     of an offense described in section 1591(a) of title 18, United
     States Code, or a comparable State law; or
           ‘‘(B)(i) is not younger than 18 years of age nor older
     than 20 years of age;
           ‘‘(ii) before the individual reached 18 years of age,
     was described in subparagraph (A); and
           ‘‘(iii) was receiving shelter or services as a minor victim
     of sex trafficking.
     ‘‘(5) QUALIFIED NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION.—The
term ‘qualified nongovernmental organization’ means an
organization that—
           ‘‘(A) is not a State or unit of local government, or
     an agency of a State or unit of local government;
           ‘‘(B) has demonstrated experience providing services
     to victims of sex trafficking or related populations (such
     as runaway and homeless youth), or employs staff special-
     ized in the treatment of sex trafficking victims; and
           ‘‘(C) demonstrates a plan to sustain the provision of
     services beyond the period of a grant awarded under this
     section.
     ‘‘(6) SEX TRAFFICKING OF A MINOR.—The term ‘sex traf-
ficking of a minor’ means an offense described in section 1591(a)
                            S. 47—98

of title 18, United States Code, or a comparable State law,
against a minor.
‘‘(b) SEX TRAFFICKING BLOCK GRANTS.—
      ‘‘(1) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—
            ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Assistant Attorney General, in
      consultation with the Assistant Secretary, may make block
      grants to 4 eligible entities located in different regions
      of the United States to combat sex trafficking of minors.
            ‘‘(B) REQUIREMENT.—Not fewer than 1 of the block
      grants made under subparagraph (A) shall be awarded
      to an eligible entity with a State population of less than
      5,000,000.
            ‘‘(C) GRANT AMOUNT.—Subject to the availability of
      appropriations under subsection (g) to carry out this sec-
      tion, each grant made under this section shall be for an
      amount not less than $1,500,000 and not greater than
      $2,000,000.
            ‘‘(D) DURATION.—
                  ‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A grant made under this section
            shall be for a period of 1 year.
                  ‘‘(ii) RENEWAL.—
                         ‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—The Assistant Attorney Gen-
                  eral may renew a grant under this section for
                  up to 3 1-year periods.
                         ‘‘(II) PRIORITY.—In making grants in any fiscal
                  year after the first fiscal year in which grants
                  are made under this section, the Assistant
                  Attorney General shall give priority to an eligible
                  entity that received a grant in the preceding fiscal
                  year and is eligible for renewal under this subpara-
                  graph, taking into account any evaluation of the
                  eligible entity conducted under paragraph (4), if
                  available.
            ‘‘(E) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out this section, the
      Assistant Attorney General shall consult with the Assistant
      Secretary with respect to—
                  ‘‘(i) evaluations of grant recipients under para-
            graph (4);
            and   ‘‘(ii) avoiding unintentional duplication of grants;
                  ‘‘(iii) any other areas of shared concern.
      ‘‘(2) USE OF FUNDS.—
            ‘‘(A) ALLOCATION.—Not less than 67 percent of each
      grant made under paragraph (1) shall be used by the
      eligible entity to provide residential care and services (as
      described in clauses (i) through (iv) of subparagraph (B))
      to minor victims of sex trafficking through qualified non-
      governmental organizations.
            ‘‘(B) AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.—Grants awarded pursu-
      ant to paragraph (2) may be used for—
                  ‘‘(i) providing residential care to minor victims of
            sex trafficking, including temporary or long-term place-
            ment as appropriate;
                  ‘‘(ii) providing 24-hour emergency social services
            response for minor victims of sex trafficking;
                                 S. 47—99

                      ‘‘(iii) providing minor victims of sex trafficking with
                clothing and other daily necessities needed to keep
                such victims from returning to living on the street;
                      ‘‘(iv) case management services for minor victims
                of sex trafficking;
                      ‘‘(v) mental health counseling for minor victims
                of sex trafficking, including specialized counseling and
                substance abuse treatment;
                      ‘‘(vi) legal services for minor victims of sex traf-
                ficking;
                      ‘‘(vii) specialized training for social service pro-
                viders, public sector personnel, and private sector per-
                sonnel likely to encounter sex trafficking victims on
                issues related to the sex trafficking of minors and
                severe forms of trafficking in persons;
                      ‘‘(viii) outreach and education programs to provide
                information about deterrence and prevention of sex
                trafficking of minors;
                      ‘‘(ix) programs to provide treatment to individuals
                charged or cited with purchasing or attempting to pur-
                chase sex acts in cases where—
                             ‘‘(I) a treatment program can be mandated
                      as a condition of a sentence, fine, suspended sen-
                      tence, or probation, or is an appropriate alternative
                      to criminal prosecution; and
                             ‘‘(II) the individual was not charged with pur-
                      chasing or attempting to purchase sex acts with
                      a minor; and
                      ‘‘(x) screening and referral of minor victims of
                severe forms of trafficking in persons.
          ‘‘(3) APPLICATION.—
                ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each eligible entity desiring a grant
          under this section shall submit an application to the Assist-
          ant Attorney General at such time, in such manner, and
          accompanied by such information as the Assistant Attorney
          General may reasonably require.
                ‘‘(B) CONTENTS.—Each application submitted pursuant
          to subparagraph (A) shall—
                      ‘‘(i) describe the activities for which assistance
                under this section is sought; and
                      ‘‘(ii) provide such additional assurances as the
                Assistant Attorney General determines to be essential
                to ensure compliance with the requirements of this
                section.
          ‘‘(4) EVALUATION.—The Assistant Attorney General shall
    enter into a contract with an academic or non-profit organiza-
    tion that has experience in issues related to sex trafficking
    of minors and evaluation of grant programs to conduct an
    annual evaluation of each grant made under this section to
    determine the impact and effectiveness of programs funded
    with the grant.
    ‘‘(c) MANDATORY EXCLUSION.—An eligible entity that receives
a grant under this section that is found to have utilized grant
funds for any unauthorized expenditure or otherwise unallowable
cost shall not be eligible for any grant funds awarded under the
grant for 2 fiscal years following the year in which the unauthorized
expenditure or unallowable cost is reported.
                              S. 47—100

     ‘‘(d) COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENT.—An eligible entity shall not
be eligible to receive a grant under this section if, during the
5 fiscal years before the eligible entity submits an application
for the grant, the eligible entity has been found to have violated
the terms or conditions of a Government grant program by utilizing
grant funds for unauthorized expenditures or otherwise unallowable
costs.
     ‘‘(e) ADMINISTRATIVE CAP.—The cost of administering the grants
authorized by this section shall not exceed 3 percent of the total
amount appropriated to carry out this section.
     ‘‘(f) AUDIT REQUIREMENT.—For fiscal years 2016 and 2017, the
Inspector General of the Department of Justice shall conduct an
audit of all 4 eligible entities that receive block grants under this
section.
     ‘‘(g) MATCH REQUIREMENT.—An eligible entity that receives a
grant under this section shall provide a non-Federal match in
an amount equal to not less than—
           ‘‘(1) 15 percent of the grant during the first year;
           ‘‘(2) 25 percent of the grant during the first renewal period;
           ‘‘(3) 40 percent of the grant during the second renewal
     period; and
           ‘‘(4) 50 percent of the grant during the third renewal period.
     ‘‘(h) NO LIMITATION ON SECTION 204 GRANTS.—An entity that
applies for a grant under section 204 is not prohibited from also
applying for a grant under this section.
     ‘‘(i) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are authorized
to be appropriated $8,000,000 to the Attorney General for each
of the fiscal years 2014 through 2017 to carry out this section.
     ‘‘(j) GAO EVALUATION.—Not later than 30 months after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of
the United States shall submit a report to Congress that contains—
           ‘‘(1) an evaluation of the impact of this section in aiding
     minor victims of sex trafficking in the jurisdiction of the entity
     receiving the grant; and
           ‘‘(2) recommendations, if any, regarding any legislative or
     administrative action the Comptroller General determines
     appropriate.’’.
     (b) SUNSET PROVISION.—The amendment made by subsection
(a) shall be effective during the 4-year period beginning on the
date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1242. EXPANDING LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT GRANTS FOR
           INVESTIGATIONS AND PROSECUTIONS OF TRAFFICKING.
     Section 204 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044c) is amended—
         (1) in subsection (a)(1)—
              (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘, which involve
         United States citizens, or aliens admitted for permanent
         residence, and’’;
              (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D)
         as subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E), respectively; and
              (C) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following:
              ‘‘(B) to train law enforcement personnel how to identify
         victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons and related
         offenses;’’; and
                              S. 47—101

                 (D) in subparagraph (C), as redesignated, by inserting
           ‘‘and prioritize the investigations and prosecutions of those
           cases involving minor victims’’ after ‘‘sex acts’’;
           (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e);
           (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
     ‘‘(d) NO LIMITATION ON SECTION 202 GRANT APPLICATIONS.—
An entity that applies for a grant under section 202 is not prohibited
from also applying for a grant under this section.’’;
           (4) in subsection (e), as redesignated, by striking
     ‘‘$20,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2011’’
     and inserting ‘‘$10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2014
     through 2017’’; and
           (5) by adding at the end the following:
     ‘‘(f) GAO EVALUATION AND REPORT.—Not later than 30 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General
of the United States shall conduct a study of and submit to Congress
a report evaluating the impact of this section on—
           ‘‘(1) the ability of law enforcement personnel to identify
     victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons and investigate
     and prosecute cases against offenders, including offenders who
     engage in the purchasing of commercial sex acts with a minor;
     and   ‘‘(2) recommendations, if any, regarding any legislative or
     administrative action the Comptroller General determines
     appropriate to improve the ability described in paragraph (1).’’.
SEC. 1243. MODEL STATE CRIMINAL LAW PROTECTION FOR CHILD
            TRAFFICKING VICTIMS AND SURVIVORS.
     Section 225(b) of the Trafficking Victims Reauthorization Act
of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 7101 note) is amended—
          (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
          (2) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
          (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
          ‘‘(2) protects children exploited through prostitution by
     including safe harbor provisions that—
                ‘‘(A) treat an individual under 18 years of age who
          has been arrested for engaging in, or attempting to engage
          in, a sexual act with another person in exchange for mone-
          tary compensation as a victim of a severe form of trafficking
          in persons;
                ‘‘(B) prohibit the charging or prosecution of an indi-
          vidual described in subparagraph (A) for a prostitution
          offense;
                ‘‘(C) require the referral of an individual described
          in subparagraph (A) to appropriate service providers,
          including comprehensive service or community-based pro-
          grams that provide assistance to child victims of commer-
          cial sexual exploitation; and
                ‘‘(D) provide that an individual described in subpara-
          graph (A) shall not be required to prove fraud, force, or
          coercion in order to receive the protections described under
          this paragraph;’’.
                                S. 47—102

             Subtitle C—Authorization of
                    Appropriations
SEC. 1251. ADJUSTMENT OF AUTHORIZATION LEVELS FOR THE TRAF-
            FICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION ACT OF 2000.
     The Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7101
et seq.) is amended—
          (1) in section 112A(b)(4) (22 U.S.C. 7109a(b)(4))—
          and  (A) by striking ‘‘$2,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$1,000,000’’;
               (B) by striking ‘‘2008 through 2011’’ and inserting
          ‘‘2014 through 2017’’; and
          (2) in section 113 (22 U.S.C. 7110)—
               (A) subsection (a)—
                    (i) by striking ‘‘$5,500,000 for each of the fiscal
               years 2008 through 2011’’ each place it appears and
               inserting ‘‘$2,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2014
               through 2017’’;
                    (ii) by inserting ‘‘, including regional trafficking
               in persons officers,’’ after ‘‘for additional personnel,’’;
               and  (iii) by striking ‘‘, and $3,000 for official reception
               and representation expenses’’;
               (B) in subsection (b)—
                    (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘$12,500,000 for
               each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2011’’ and
               inserting ‘‘$14,500,000 for each of the fiscal years 2014
               through 2017’’; and
                    (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘to the Secretary
               of Health and Human Services’’ and all that follows
               and inserting ‘‘$8,000,000 to the Secretary of Health
               and Human Services for each of the fiscal years 2014
               through 2017.’’;
               (C) in subsection (c)(1)—
                    (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘2008 through
               2011’’ each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2014
               through 2017’’;
                    (ii) in subparagraph (B)—
                          (I) by striking ‘‘$15,000,000 for fiscal year 2003
                    and $10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008
                    through 2011’’ and inserting ‘‘$10,000,000 for each
                    of the fiscal years 2014 through 2017’’; and
                          (II) by striking ‘‘2008 through 2011’’ and
                    inserting ‘‘2014 through 2017’’; and
                    (iii) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘2008 through
               2011’’ and inserting ‘‘2014 through 2017’’;
               (D) in subsection (d)—
                    (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (C)
               as paragraphs (1) through (3), respectively, and moving
               such paragraphs 2 ems to the left;
                    (ii) in the paragraph (1), as redesignated, by
               striking ‘‘$10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008
               through 2011’’ and inserting ‘‘$11,000,000 for each of
               the fiscal years 2014 through 2017’’; and
                    (iii) in paragraph (3), as redesignated, by striking
               ‘‘to the Attorney General’’ and all that follows and
                             S. 47—103

             inserting ‘‘$11,000,000 to the Attorney General for each
             of the fiscal years 2014 through 2017.’’;
             (E) in subsection (e)—
                  (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘$15,000,000 for
             each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2011’’ and
             inserting ‘‘$7,500,000 for each of the fiscal years 2014
             through 2017’’; and
                  (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘$15,000,000 for
             each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2011’’ and
             inserting ‘‘$7,500,000 for each of the fiscal years 2014
             through 2017’’;
             (F) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘$10,000,000 for each
        of the fiscal years 2008 through 2011’’ and inserting
        ‘‘$5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2014 through 2017’’;
        and  (G) in subsection (i), by striking ‘‘$18,000,000 for each
        of the fiscal years 2008 through 2011’’ and inserting
        ‘‘$10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2014 through
        2017’’.
SEC. 1252. ADJUSTMENT OF AUTHORIZATION LEVELS FOR THE TRAF-
            FICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION REAUTHORIZATION ACT
            OF 2005.
    The Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005
(Public Law 109–164) is amended—
         (1) by striking section 102(b)(7); and
         (2) in section 201(c)(2), by striking ‘‘$1,000,000 for each
    of the fiscal years 2008 through 2011’’ and inserting ‘‘$250,000
    for each of the fiscal years 2014 through 2017’’.

       Subtitle D—Unaccompanied Alien
                  Children
SEC. 1261. APPROPRIATE CUSTODIAL SETTINGS FOR UNACCOMPANIED
             MINORS WHO REACH THE AGE OF MAJORITY WHILE IN
             FEDERAL CUSTODY.
    Section 235(c)(2) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims
Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (8 U.S.C. 1232(c)(2)) is
amended—
         (1) by striking ‘‘Subject to’’ and inserting the following:
              ‘‘(A) MINORS IN DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
         SERVICES CUSTODY.—Subject to’’; and
         (2) by adding at the end the following:
              ‘‘(B) ALIENS TRANSFERRED FROM DEPARTMENT OF
         HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES TO DEPARTMENT OF HOME-
         LAND SECURITY CUSTODY.—If a minor described in subpara-
         graph (A) reaches 18 years of age and is transferred to
         the custody of the Secretary of Homeland Security, the
         Secretary shall consider placement in the least restrictive
         setting available after taking into account the alien’s
         danger to self, danger to the community, and risk of flight.
         Such aliens shall be eligible to participate in alternative
         to detention programs, utilizing a continuum of alternatives
         based on the alien’s need for supervision, which may
         include placement of the alien with an individual or an
         organizational sponsor, or in a supervised group home.’’.
                               S. 47—104
SEC. 1262. APPOINTMENT OF CHILD ADVOCATES FOR UNACCOM-
           PANIED MINORS.
    Section 235(c)(6) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims
Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (8 U.S.C. 1232(c)(6)) is
amended—
         (1) by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and inserting the following:
              ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’; and
         (2) by striking ‘‘and criminal’’; and
         (3) by adding at the end the following:
              ‘‘(B) APPOINTMENT OF CHILD ADVOCATES.—
                    ‘‘(i) INITIAL SITES.—Not later than 2 years after
              the date of the enactment of the Violence Against
              Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, the Secretary of
              Health and Human Services shall appoint child advo-
              cates at 3 new immigration detention sites to provide
              independent child advocates for trafficking victims and
              vulnerable unaccompanied alien children.
                    ‘‘(ii) ADDITIONAL SITES.—Not later than 3 years
              after the date of the enactment of the Violence Against
              Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, the Secretary
              shall appoint child advocates at not more than 3 addi-
              tional immigration detention sites.
                    ‘‘(iii) SELECTION OF SITES.—Sites at which child
              advocate programs will be established under this
              subparagraph shall be located at immigration deten-
              tion sites at which more than 50 children are held
              in immigration custody, and shall be selected sequen-
              tially, with priority given to locations with—
                           ‘‘(I) the largest number of unaccompanied alien
                    children; and
                           ‘‘(II) the most vulnerable populations of
                    unaccompanied children.
              ‘‘(C) RESTRICTIONS.—
                    ‘‘(i) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—A child advocate
              program may not use more that 10 percent of the
              Federal funds received under this section for adminis-
              trative expenses.
                    ‘‘(ii) NONEXCLUSIVITY.—Nothing in this section
              may be construed to restrict the ability of a child
              advocate program under this section to apply for or
              obtain funding from any other source to carry out
              the programs described in this section.
                    ‘‘(iii) CONTRIBUTION OF FUNDS.—A child advocate
              program selected under this section shall contribute
              non-Federal funds, either directly or through in-kind
              contributions, to the costs of the child advocate pro-
              gram in an amount that is not less than 25 percent
              of the total amount of Federal funds received by the
              child advocate program under this section. In-kind con-
              tributions may not exceed 40 percent of the matching
              requirement under this clause.
              ‘‘(D) ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
         1 year after the date of the enactment of the Violence
         Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, and annually
         thereafter, the Secretary of Health and Human Services
         shall submit a report describing the activities undertaken
                       S. 47—105

by the Secretary to authorize the appointment of inde-
pendent Child Advocates for trafficking victims and vulner-
able unaccompanied alien children to the Committee on
the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the
Judiciary of the House of Representatives.
    ‘‘(E) ASSESSMENT OF CHILD ADVOCATE PROGRAM.—
          ‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable after the
    date of the enactment of the Violence Against Women
    Reauthorization Act of 2013, the Comptroller General
    of the United States shall conduct a study regarding
    the effectiveness of the Child Advocate Program oper-
    ated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
          ‘‘(ii) MATTERS TO BE STUDIED.—In the study
    required under clause (i), the Comptroller General
    shall— collect information and analyze the following:
                 ‘‘(I) analyze the effectiveness of existing child
          advocate programs in improving outcomes for traf-
          ficking victims and other vulnerable unaccom-
          panied alien children;
                 ‘‘(II) evaluate the implementation of child
          advocate programs in new sites pursuant to
          subparagraph (B);
                 ‘‘(III) evaluate the extent to which eligible traf-
          ficking victims and other vulnerable unaccom-
          panied children are receiving child advocate serv-
          ices and assess the possible budgetary implications
          of increased participation in the program;
                 ‘‘(IV) evaluate the barriers to improving out-
          comes for trafficking victims and other vulnerable
          unaccompanied children; and
                 ‘‘(V) make recommendations on statutory
          changes to improve the Child Advocate Program
          in relation to the matters analyzed under sub-
          clauses (I) through (IV).
          ‘‘(iii) GAO REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
    the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller
    General of the United States shall submit the results
    of the study required under this subparagraph to—
          Senate;‘‘(I) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
                 ‘‘(II) the Committee on Health, Education,
          Labor, and Pensions of the Senate;
                 ‘‘(III) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
          House of Representatives; and
                 ‘‘(IV) the Committee on Education and the
          Workforce of the House of Representatives.
    ‘‘(F) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are
authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary and Human
Services to carry out this subsection—
          ‘‘(i) $1,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2014
    and 2015; and
          ‘‘(ii) $2,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2016
    and 2017.’’.
                                S. 47—106
SEC. 1263. ACCESS TO FEDERAL FOSTER CARE AND UNACCOMPANIED
             REFUGEE MINOR PROTECTIONS FOR CERTAIN U VISA
             RECIPIENTS.
    Section 235(d)(4) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims
Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (8 U.S.C. 1232(d)(4)) is
amended—
         (1) in subparagraph (A),
              (A) by striking ‘‘either’’;
              (B) by striking ‘‘or who’’ and inserting a comma; and
              (C) by inserting ‘‘, or has been granted status under
         section 101(a)(15)(U) of the Immigration and Nationality
         Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(U)),’’ before ‘‘, shall be eligible’’;
         and
         (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘, or status under
    section 101(a)(15)(U) of the Immigration and Nationality Act
    (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(U)),’’ after ‘‘(8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(27)(J))’’.
SEC.    1264.   GAO STUDY     OF   THE   EFFECTIVENESS      OF   BORDER
                SCREENINGS.
       (a) STUDY.—
            (1) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General of the United
       States shall conduct a study examining the effectiveness of
       screenings conducted by Department of Homeland Security per-
       sonnel in carrying out section 235(a)(4) of the William Wilber-
       force Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008
       (8 U.S.C. 1232(a)(4)).
            (2) STUDY.—In carrying out paragraph (1), the Comptroller
       General shall take into account—
                 (A) the degree to which Department of Homeland Secu-
            rity personnel are adequately ensuring that—
                      (i) all children are being screened to determine
                 whether they are described in section 235(a)(2)(A) of
                 the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection
                 Reauthorization Act;
                      (ii) appropriate and reliable determinations are
                 being made about whether children are described in
                 section 235(a)(2)(A) of such Act, including determina-
                 tions of the age of such children;
                      (iii) children are repatriated in an appropriate
                 manner, consistent with clauses (i) through (iii) of sec-
                 tion 235(a)(2)(C) of such Act;
                      (iv) children are appropriately being permitted to
                 withdraw their applications for admission, in accord-
                 ance with section 235(a)(2)(B)(i) of such Act;
                      (v) children are being properly cared for while
                 they are in the custody of the Department of Homeland
                 Security and awaiting repatriation or transfer to the
                 custody of the Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
                 ices; and
                      (vi) children are being transferred to the custody
                 of the Secretary of Health and Human Services in
                 a manner that is consistent with such Act; and
                 (B) the number of such children that have been trans-
            ferred to the custody of the Department of Health and
            Human Services, the Federal funds expended to maintain
            custody of such children, and the Federal benefits available
            to such children, if any.
                           S. 47—107

        (3) ACCESS TO DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY OPER-
    ATIONS.—
             (A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph
         (B), for the purposes of conducting the study described
         in subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide the Comp-
         troller General with unrestricted access to all stages of
         screenings and other interactions between Department of
         Homeland Security personnel and children encountered by
         the Comptroller General.
              (B) EXCEPTIONS.—The Secretary shall not permit unre-
         stricted access under subparagraph (A) if the Secretary
         determines that the security of a particular interaction
         would be threatened by such access.
     (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 2 years after the
date of the commencement of the study described in subsection
(a), the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit
a report to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and
the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives
that contains the Commission’s findings and recommendations.




                         Speaker of the House of Representatives.




                     Vice President of the United States and
                                          President of the Senate.
