                                                                                                                                                                  IV




                                                                113TH CONGRESS
                                                                   1ST SESSION                         H. RES. 10
                                                                            Recognizing the 100th Anniversary of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority,
                                                                                                     Incorporated.




                                                                               IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                                             JANUARY 3, 2013
                                                                Ms. FUDGE (for herself, Ms. CLARKE, Mr. COHEN, Mr. RUSH, Ms. NORTON,
                                                                    Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. CLAY, Mr. CONYERS, Mrs. BEATTY,
                                                                    Mr. AL GREEN of Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. RICHMOND, and
                                                                    Ms. WILSON of Florida) submitted the following resolution; which was re-
                                                                    ferred to the Committee on Education and the Workforce




                                                                                             RESOLUTION
                                                                    Recognizing the 100th Anniversary of Delta Sigma Theta
                                                                                     Sorority, Incorporated.

                                                                Whereas Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated, was
                                                                   founded on January 13, 1913, by 22 college women at
                                                                   Howard University;
                                                                Whereas the founders of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incor-
                                                                   porated, include Osceola Macarthy Adams, Marguerite
                                                                   Young Alexander, Winona Cargile Alexander, Ethel Cuff
                                                                   Black, Bertha Pitts Campbell, Zephyr Chisom Carter,
                                                                   Edna Brown Coleman, Jessie McGuire Dent, Frederica
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with                                     Chase Dodd, Myra Davis Hemmings, Olive Jones,
                                                                   Jimmie Bugg Middleton, Pauline Oberdorfer Minor,
                                                                   Vashti Turley Murphy, Naomi Sewell Richardson, Mamie


                                                                                                                           2
                                                                        Reddy Rose, Eliza P. Shippen, Florence Letcher Toms,
                                                                        Ethel Carr Watson, Wertie Blackwell Weaver, Madree
                                                                        Penn White, and Edith Motte Young;
                                                                Whereas Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated, is a pri-
                                                                   vate, non-profit organization whose purpose is to provide
                                                                   assistance and support through established programs in
                                                                   local communities throughout the world;
                                                                Whereas Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated, is the
                                                                   largest African-American Greek letter sorority, a sister-
                                                                   hood of more than 200,000 predominately African-Amer-
                                                                   ican college-educated women, comprised of over 900
                                                                   chapters located in the United States, England, Japan
                                                                   (Tokyo and Okinawa), Germany, the Virgin Islands, Ber-
                                                                   muda, Haiti, the Bahamas, and the Republic of Korea;
                                                                Whereas Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated, has a
                                                                   legacy of exercising its collective strength to promote aca-
                                                                   demic excellence and to provide assistance to persons in
                                                                   need;
                                                                Whereas Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated, uses its
                                                                   Five-Point Program Thrust of Economic Development,
                                                                   Educational Development, International Awareness and
                                                                   Involvement, Physical and Mental Health, and Political
                                                                   Awareness and Involvement to uplift, encourage, and de-
                                                                   velop the global community;
                                                                Whereas Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated, has dem-
                                                                   onstrated a steadfast commitment to service by imple-
                                                                   menting and sustaining programs such as those through
                                                                   the Financial Fortitude initiative, which seek to close the
                                                                   widening gap between the poor and wealthy, and through
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with                                     educational programs, such as the established Dr. Betty
                                                                   Shabazz Delta Academy, which provides opportunity for

                                                                             •HRES 10 IH

                                                                                                                           3
                                                                        local chapters to enrich and enhance the education that
                                                                        young women receive in public schools across the Nation
                                                                        to prepare them for full participation as leaders in the
                                                                        21st Century;
                                                                Whereas Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated, has dem-
                                                                   onstrated a steadfast global commitment of service by es-
                                                                   tablishing and maintaining the Mary Help of the Sick
                                                                   Mission Hospital in Thika, Kenya, and as evidenced by
                                                                   its designation a non-governmental organization to the
                                                                   Economic and Social Council of the United Nations and
                                                                   its promotion to special consultative status, as a result of
                                                                   its volunteer services and humanitarian efforts performed
                                                                   to address issues throughout the world;
                                                                Whereas Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated, has re-
                                                                   mained an active and committed participant in the demo-
                                                                   cratic process by instituting its annual Delta Days at the
                                                                   United Nations and Delta Days in the Nation’s Capital;
                                                                Whereas the current members of Delta Sigma Theta Soror-
                                                                   ity, Incorporated, stand on the shoulders of giants, such
                                                                   as Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm, Congresswoman
                                                                   Barbara Jordan, Senator Carol Moseley Braun, Con-
                                                                   gresswoman Carrie P. Meek, Congresswoman Stephanie
                                                                   Tubbs Jones, Dr. Dorothy I. Height, and the Honorable
                                                                   Patricia Roberts Harris to name a few, who have left an
                                                                   incredible imprint on the Nation’s history; and
                                                                Whereas Delta Sigma Theta, Incorporated, continues to make
                                                                   a difference in American and international communities,
                                                                   always following in the footsteps of its Founders and up-
                                                                   holding its commitment to be great stewards of sister-
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with                                     hood, scholarship, and service: Now, therefore, be it
                                                                  1               Resolved, That the House of Representatives—

                                                                             •HRES 10 IH

                                                                                                                           4
                                                                  1                        (1) recognizes the centennial anniversary of the
                                                                  2               founding of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incor-
                                                                  3               porated; and
                                                                  4                        (2) applauds and honors Delta Sigma Theta
                                                                  5               Sorority, Incorporated, and all its members for a
                                                                  6               century of fortitude and distinguished service to the
                                                                  7               people of the United States and the global commu-
                                                                  8               nity.
                                                                                                                           Æ
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with




                                                                             •HRES 10 IH

