                                                                                                                                     IV




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       H. RES. 120
                                  A resolution commemorating the life and service of Benedict XVI, Pope
                                      Emeritus, and congratulating Pope Francis on his election as Supreme
                                      Pontiff of the Roman Catholic Church.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                MARCH 15, 2013
                                  Mr. GRIMM (for himself, Mr. TIBERI, Mr. PASCRELL, and Mr. LIPINSKI) sub-
                                      mitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on
                                      Foreign Affairs




                                                              RESOLUTION
                                  A resolution commemorating the life and service of Benedict
                                      XVI, Pope Emeritus, and congratulating Pope Francis
                                      on his election as Supreme Pontiff of the Roman Catholic
                                      Church.

                                  Whereas Benedict XVI, Pope Emeritus, a man of monu-
                                     mental courage and humility, whose unceasing love and
                                     devotion to the ministry of Christ helped steward the
                                     Catholic Church and the faithful through the daunting
                                     challenges of the 21st century;
                                  Whereas Benedict leaves behind an enduring legacy, both as
                                     renowned theologian and kind-hearted leader who bal-





                                     anced the august splendor of the papacy with a gentle
                                     humanity, and masterfully communicated the timeless



                                                                                             2
                                          morality of the Church in a crusade against the modern
                                          evils of relativism, materialism, and consumerism;
                                  Whereas the election to the papacy of His Holiness Pope
                                     Francis, formerly Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio of Ar-
                                     gentina, marks a groundbreaking moment in the life of
                                     the Catholic Church, elevating a marvelous suitor to lead
                                     the world’s largest apostolic Christian ministry;
                                  Whereas Pope Francis has inspired a vibrant sense of reform
                                     and spiritual renewal in the Church, representing the
                                     first pontiff born in the New World, the first hailing from
                                     Latin America, and the first prelate ordained in the re-
                                     nowned Society of Jesus or Jesuits;
                                  Whereas the Pope’s chosen regnal name of Francis, after St.
                                     Francis of Assisi, as well as his unrivaled reputation as
                                     a personally devoted minister to the needs of the poor
                                     and outcast, emphasizes the opportunities and obligations
                                     of mankind to serve a missionary role in advancing peace,
                                     social justice, and moral contemplation for the better-
                                     ment of all God’s children;
                                  Whereas as President of the Argentine Episcopal Conference,
                                     Pope Francis’ experience as spiritual guide and premiere
                                     pastoral administrator of one of the Holy See’s largest
                                     and most active diocese reveals his unique ability to ac-
                                     complish much needed reforms in the Vatican and sus-
                                     tain a growing Church in the world’s developing commu-
                                     nities in Latin America, Africa, and Asia; and
                                  Whereas Pope Francis’ striking humility and simple
                                     gentleness empowers him to connect with and renew the
                                     hearts of the faithful and heal the recent wounds of the





                                     Church: Now, therefore, be it
                                    1              Resolved, That the House of Representatives—

                                              •HRES 120 IH

                                                                                             3
                                    1                        (1) offers its congratulations to Pope Francis
                                    2              as he embarks on the sacred burden as the leader
                                    3              of the world’s 1,200,000,000 Catholics; and
                                    4                        (2) extends its gratitude and well-wishes to
                                    5              Benedict XVI, Pope Emeritus, for his service to the
                                    6              world community as he enters the next phase of his
                                    7              devotion to the Church in solemn prayer and reflec-
                                    8              tion.
                                              •HRES 120 IH                                 Æ
