                                                                                                                                     IV




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       H. RES. 130
                                  Recognizing the cultural and historical significance of Nowruz and acknowl-
                                      edging the Cyrus Cylinder as a symbol of respect for human rights
                                      and religious tolerance.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                              MARCH 20, 2013     ´
                                  Mr. WAXMAN (for himself, Mr. ROSKAM, Mr. CARDENAS, Mr. HONDA, Mr.
                                      MICA, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr. BENTIVOLIO, Mr. CON-
                                      NOLLY, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York, Mr. SHERMAN, Ms.
                                      CLARKE, and Ms. EDWARDS) submitted the following resolution; which
                                      was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs




                                                              RESOLUTION
                                  Recognizing the cultural and historical significance of
                                     Nowruz and acknowledging the Cyrus Cylinder as a sym-
                                     bol of respect for human rights and religious tolerance.

                                  Whereas Nowruz marks the traditional Iranian New Year,
                                     which originated in ancient Persia, and dates back more
                                     than 3,000 years;
                                  Whereas Nowruz occurs on the vernal equinox and celebrates
                                     the arrival of spring;
                                  Whereas Nowruz serves to remind the United States of the
                                     many lasting contributions of the Persian civilization to





                                     the world and the noteworthy impact of Iranian-Ameri-




                                                                                             2
                                          cans to the social and economic fabric of society in the
                                          United States;
                                  Whereas in 539 B.C.E., the Cyrus Cylinder, an ancient clay
                                     cylinder inscribed with a declaration in Babylonian cune-
                                     iform in the name of Cyrus, which was created following
                                     the Persian conquest of Babylon has, over the centuries,
                                     come to symbolize mankind’s first document on human
                                     rights;
                                  Whereas Cyrus II (also known as Cyrus the Great) of Persia
                                     is recognized for his achievements in human rights, poli-
                                     tics, and religious tolerance, as well as his influence on
                                     future Eastern and Western civilizations;
                                  Whereas the policies of Cyrus toward minority religions are
                                     further documented in Babylonian texts and Jewish
                                     sources, and historical accounts;
                                  Whereas the Cyrus Cylinder has had significant impact on
                                     the respect for human rights that Iranian Americans be-
                                     lieve in today;
                                  Whereas an exhibition will tour in the United States to cele-
                                     brate the Cyrus Cylinder as a symbol of tolerance and re-
                                     spect for different peoples and different faiths;
                                  Whereas the Cyrus Cylinder exhibition will take place in
                                     Washington, DC, Houston, Texas, New York, New York,
                                     San Francisco, California, and Los Angeles, California;
                                  Whereas the launch of the Cyrus Cylinder exhibition coincides
                                     with the Nowruz holiday and connects the Persian New
                                     Year to the values of human rights; and
                                  Whereas the Cyrus Cylinder symbolizes the universal hopes





                                     and aspirations of all people for human rights and reli-
                                     gious tolerance: Now, therefore, be it

                                              •HRES 130 IH

                                                                                             3
                                    1              Resolved, That the House of Representatives—
                                    2                        (1) recognizes the cultural and historical signifi-
                                    3              cance of Nowruz;
                                    4                        (2) recognizes the hopes and aspirations of all
                                    5              people, including the people of Iran for human
                                    6              rights and religious tolerance as embodied by the
                                    7              Cyrus Cylinder; and
                                    8                        (3) recognizes the tour of the Cyrus Cylinder
                                    9              throughout the United States.
                                              •HRES 130 IH                                 Æ
