                                                                                                                                   IV




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       H. RES. 54
                                              Observing the 100th birthday of civil rights icon Rosa Parks and
                                                                commemorating her legacy.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                              FEBRUARY 5, 2013
                                  Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mrs. ROBY, Mr. DELANEY, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia,
                                      Mr. PETERS of Michigan, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. CAMP, Mr. CLAY, Mr.
                                      BUTTERFIELD, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Ms.
                                      CLARKE, Mr. COHEN, Mr. RANGEL, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
                                      THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mrs. BEATTY, Ms.
                                      BROWN of Florida, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. AL
                                      GREEN of Texas, Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms. EDWARDS, Ms. FUDGE, Ms. CHU,
                                      Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. DINGELL, Mr. FATTAH, Ms.
                                      MCCOLLUM, Ms. MOORE, Mr. NADLER, Ms. NORTON, Mr. MEEKS, Ms.
                                      EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. RUSH, Mr. WATT, Mr. JOHN-
                                      SON of Georgia, Mr. VELA, Mr. BACHUS, Mr. RUIZ, and Mr. BONNER)
                                      submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee
                                      on the Judiciary




                                                              RESOLUTION
                                   Observing the 100th birthday of civil rights icon Rosa Parks
                                                 and commemorating her legacy.

                                  Whereas Rosa Louise McCauley Parks was born on February
                                     4, 1913, in Tuskegee, Alabama, the first child of James
                                     and Leona (Edwards) McCauley;





                                  Whereas Rosa Parks dedicated her life to the cause of uni-
                                     versal human rights and truly embodied the love of hu-
                                     manity and freedom;


                                                                                             2
                                  Whereas Rosa Parks was arrested on December 1, 1955, in
                                     Montgomery, Alabama, for refusing to give up her seat
                                     on a bus to a White man, and her stand for equal rights
                                     became legendary;
                                  Whereas news of the arrest of Rosa Parks resulted in ap-
                                     proximately 42,000 African-Americans boycotting Mont-
                                     gomery buses for 381 days, beginning on December 5,
                                     1955, until the bus segregation law was changed on De-
                                     cember 21, 1956;
                                  Whereas the United States Supreme Court ruled on Novem-
                                     ber 13, 1956, that the Montgomery segregation law was
                                     unconstitutional, and on December 20, 1956, Mont-
                                     gomery officials were ordered to desegregate buses;
                                  Whereas the civil rights movement led to the Civil Rights Act
                                     of 1964 (Public Law 88–352; 78 Stat. 241), which broke
                                     down the barrier of legal discrimination against African-
                                     Americans and made equality before the law a reality for
                                     all people of the United States;
                                  Whereas Congress recognized on November 18, 2005, that
                                     most historians date the beginning of the modern civil
                                     rights movement with Rosa Parks’ act of civil disobe-
                                     dience (H. Con. Res. 208);
                                  Whereas Rosa Parks has been honored as the ‘‘first lady of
                                     civil rights’’ and the ‘‘mother of the freedom movement’’,
                                     and her quiet dignity ignited the most significant social
                                     movement in the history of the United States;
                                  Whereas, in 1987, Rosa Parks and her close associate Elaine
                                     Steele cofounded the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute





                                     for Self Development to motivate and direct youth to
                                     achieve their highest potential through Rosa Parks’ phi-


                                              •HRES 54 IH

                                                                                             3
                                          losophy of ‘‘quiet strength’’ and cross-cultural exposure
                                          for nurturing a global and inclusive perspective;
                                  Whereas Rosa Parks was the recipient of many awards and
                                     accolades for her efforts on behalf of racial harmony, in-
                                     cluding the Congressional Gold Medal, the Spingarn
                                     Award, which is the highest honor of the National Asso-
                                     ciation for the Advancement of Colored People for civil
                                     rights contributions, and the Presidential Medal of Free-
                                     dom, which is the highest civilian honor in the United
                                     States, and was named one of the 20 most influential
                                     and iconic figures of the 20th century;
                                  Whereas Rosa Parks, by her quiet courage, symbolizes all
                                     that is vital about nonviolent protest, as she endured
                                     threats of death and persisted as an advocate for the sim-
                                     ple, basic lessons she taught the Nation and from which
                                     the Nation has benefitted immeasurably;
                                  Whereas Rosa Parks and her husband Raymond Parks
                                     moved to Michigan in 1957 and she resided there until
                                     her death on October 24, 2005;
                                  Whereas, in recognition of the historic contributions of Rosa
                                     Parks, her remains were placed in the rotunda of the
                                     Capitol from October 30 to October 31, 2005, so that the
                                     people of the United States could pay their last respects
                                     to this great American;
                                  Whereas, in November 2005, Congress authorized the Joint
                                     Committee on the Library to procure a statue of Rosa
                                     Parks to be placed in the Capitol;
                                  Whereas the United States Postal Service will issue a stamp





                                     in February 2013 to honor Rosa Parks and her courage
                                     to act at a pivotal moment in the civil rights movement;


                                              •HRES 54 IH

                                                                                             4
                                  Whereas the bus on which Rosa Parks sparked a new era in
                                     the American quest for freedom and equality is one of the
                                     most significant artifacts of the American civil rights
                                     movement and is on permanent display in the Henry
                                     Ford Museum in Dearborn, Michigan;
                                  Whereas, on February 4, 2013, the Henry Ford Museum, will
                                     commemorate the 100th birthday of Rosa Parks by call-
                                     ing for a National Day of Courage and sponsoring a pro-
                                     gram that highlights her contributions to the civil rights
                                     movement, including a day-long celebration, with both
                                     virtual and on-site activities featuring nationally recog-
                                     nized speakers, musical and dramatic interpretative per-
                                     formances, a panel presentation of ‘‘Rosa’s Story’’ and a
                                     reading of the tale ‘‘Quiet Strength’’, featuring the actual
                                     bus on which she sat as the centerpiece in commemo-
                                     rating her extraordinary life and accomplishments, and
                                     affording everyone the opportunity to board the bus and
                                     sit in the seat that she refused to give up; and
                                  Whereas the Rosa Parks Museum at Troy University and the
                                     Mobile Studio will commemorate the birthday of Rosa
                                     Parks with the 100th Birthday Wishes Project, culmi-
                                     nating on February 4, 2013, with a 100th birthday cele-
                                     bration at the Davis Theatre for the Performing Arts in
                                     Montgomery, Alabama, where 2,000 birthday wishes sub-
                                     mitted by individuals throughout the United States will
                                     be transformed into 200 graphic messages: Now, there-
                                    1fore, be it   Resolved, That the House of Representatives—
                                    2                        (1) recognizes and celebrates the 100th birth-




                                    3              day of civil rights icon Rosa Parks; and
                                              •HRES 54 IH

                                                                                             5
                                    1                        (2) commemorates the legacy of Rosa Parks to
                                    2              inspire all people of the United States to stand up
                                    3              for freedom and the principles of the Constitution.
                                              •HRES 54 IH                                  Æ
