                                                                                                                                   IV




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       H. RES. 87
                                  Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the President
                                      should suspend the delivery of F–16 fighter aircraft, M1 tanks, and
                                      other defense articles and defense services to the Government of Egypt.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                              FEBRUARY 27, 2013
                                  Mr. GRIFFIN of Arkansas (for himself, Mr. WESTMORELAND, Mr.
                                      BENTIVOLIO, Mr. HUIZENGA of Michigan, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. ROSS, Mr.
                                      BURGESS, Mr. LOBIONDO, and Mr. CRAWFORD) submitted the following
                                      resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs




                                                              RESOLUTION
                                  Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that
                                     the President should suspend the delivery of F–16 fight-
                                     er aircraft, M1 tanks, and other defense articles and
                                     defense services to the Government of Egypt.

                                  Whereas the shipment of F–16 fighter aircraft to Egypt is
                                     scheduled for completed delivery by the end of 2013;
                                  Whereas the agreement to provide these military aircraft to
                                     Egypt originated in 2009 when the proposal was brought
                                     to Congress for purchase and delivery of these aircraft
                                     through the Foreign Military Financing (FMF) Program;





                                  Whereas these aircraft were intended for receipt by the Gov-
                                     ernment of Egypt under the leadership of President
                                     Hosni Mubarak;


                                                                                             2
                                  Whereas in the 3 years it has taken for the procurement of
                                     these aircraft, Egypt has undergone significant changes
                                     in their government, including a revolution and the in-
                                     stallment of a new leader, Mohamed Morsi, a former
                                     leader of the Muslim Brotherhood;
                                  Whereas recent and previous statements by President Morsi
                                     indicate a clear hostility towards non-Muslims in Egypt
                                     as well as towards the United States and its allies—par-
                                     ticularly Israel;
                                  Whereas the instability of the region is also evident from the
                                     continued anti-government protests that have resulted in
                                     at least 50 deaths and hundreds of injuries;
                                  Whereas President Morsi granted emergency powers to the
                                     Egyptian military to arrest Egyptian civilians and serve
                                     as a police force in the country;
                                  Whereas Congress recognizes and understands the important
                                     and delicate nature of the relationship the United States
                                     maintains with Egypt, but, given the facts, we believe
                                     that United States military support of this newly estab-
                                     lished government must become conditional;
                                  Whereas referring to Egypt in September 2012, President
                                     Obama stated: ‘‘I don’t think that we would consider
                                     them an ally.’’; and
                                  Whereas the Obama Administration has deemed inadequate
                                     President Morsi’s apology for his anti-Semitic comments:
                                     Now, therefore, be it
                                    1              Resolved, That it is the sense of the House of Rep-
                                    2 resentatives that the President should suspend the delivery




                                    3 of F–16 fighter aircraft, M1 tanks, and other defense arti-
                                    4 cles and defense services listed in Category VI, VII, or

                                              •HRES 87 IH

                                                                                             3
                                    1 VIII of the United States Munitions List to the Govern-
                                    2 ment of Egypt until the President determines and certifies
                                    3 to Congress that the Government of Egypt—
                                    4                        (1) is politically stable as evidenced by a lack
                                    5              of civil unrest and the termination of use of military
                                    6              force against Egyptian citizens;
                                    7                        (2) is a full partner in its alliance with the
                                    8              United States; and
                                  109              ple.      (3) demonstrates respect for Israel and its peo-
                                              •HRES 87 IH                                  Æ
