                                                                                                                                                                    IA




                                                                   113TH CONGRESS
                                                                      1ST SESSION                        H. J. RES. 12
                                                                   Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States relating
                                                                       to limitations on the amounts of contributions and expenditures that
                                                                       may be made in connection with campaigns for election to public office.




                                                                                 IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                                                            JANUARY 4, 2013
                                                                     Ms. KAPTUR             introduced the following joint resolution; which was referred to
                                                                                                     the Committee on the Judiciary




                                                                               JOINT RESOLUTION
                                                                   Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                                                      States relating to limitations on the amounts of contribu-
                                                                      tions and expenditures that may be made in connection
                                                                      with campaigns for election to public office.
                                                                     1               Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                                                     2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled
                                                                     3 (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                                                     4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-
                                                                     5 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                                                     6 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
rfrederick on DSK6VPTVN1PROD with                                    7 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
                                                                                                                              2
                                                                     1 States within seven years after the date of its submission
                                                                     2 for ratification:
                                                                     3                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                                                     4               ‘‘SECTION 1. Congress shall have power to set limits
                                                                     5 on the amount of contributions that may be accepted by,
                                                                     6 and the amount of expenditures that may be made by, in
                                                                     7 support of, or in opposition to, a candidate for nomination
                                                                     8 for election to, or for election to, Federal office.
                                                                     9               ‘‘SECTION 2. A State shall have power to set limits
                                                                   10 on the amount of contributions that may be accepted by,
                                                                   11 and the amount of expenditures that may be made by, in
                                                                   12 support of, or in opposition to, a candidate for nomination
                                                                   13 for election to, or for election to, State or local office.
                                                                   14                ‘‘SECTION 3. Congress shall have power to implement
                                                                   15 and enforce this article by appropriate legislation.’’.
                                                                                                                              Æ
rfrederick on DSK6VPTVN1PROD with




                                                                                •HJ 12 IH

