                                                                                                                                                                IA




                                                               113TH CONGRESS
                                                                  1ST SESSION                        H. J. RES. 17
                                                               Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States which
                                                                   requires (except during time of war and subject to suspension by Con-
                                                                   gress) that the total amount of money expended by the United States
                                                                   during any fiscal year not exceed the amount of certain revenue received
                                                                   by the United States during such fiscal year and not exceed 20 percent
                                                                   of the gross domestic product of the United States during the previous
                                                                   calendar year.




                                                                             IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                                                    JANUARY 15, 2013
                                                                Mrs. ROBY         introduced the following joint resolution; which was referred to the
                                                                                               Committee on the Judiciary




                                                                           JOINT RESOLUTION
                                                               Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                                                  States which requires (except during time of war and
                                                                  subject to suspension by Congress) that the total amount
                                                                  of money expended by the United States during any
                                                                  fiscal year not exceed the amount of certain revenue
                                                                  received by the United States during such fiscal year
                                                                  and not exceed 20 percent of the gross domestic product
                                                                  of the United States during the previous calendar year.
                                                                 1               Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
tjames on DSK6SPTVN1PROD with                                    2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled
                                                                 3 (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-



                                                                                                                          2
                                                                 1 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-
                                                                 2 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                                                 3 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
                                                                 4 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
                                                                 5 States within seven years after the date of its submission
                                                                 6 by the Congress:
                                                                 7                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                                                 8               ‘‘SECTION 1. The total amount of money expended
                                                                 9 by the United States in any fiscal year shall not exceed
                                                               10 the total amount of revenue received by the United States
                                                               11 during such fiscal year, except revenue received from the
                                                               12 issuance of bonds, notes, or other obligations of the United
                                                               13 States.
                                                               14                ‘‘SECTION 2. The total amount of money expended
                                                               15 by the United States in any fiscal year shall not exceed
                                                               16 the amount equal to 20 percent of the gross domestic
                                                               17 product of the United States during the last calendar year
                                                               18 ending before the beginning of such fiscal year.
                                                               19                ‘‘SECTION 3. Prior to each fiscal year, the President
                                                               20 shall transmit to Congress a proposed budget for the
                                                               21 United States for that fiscal year in which total outlays
                                                               22 of the United States do not exceed total revenue received
                                                               23 by the United States.
tjames on DSK6SPTVN1PROD with                                  24                ‘‘SECTION 4. Sections 1 and 2 of this Article shall
                                                               25 not apply during any fiscal year during any part of which


                                                                            •HJ 17 IH

                                                                                                                          3
                                                                 1 the United States is at war as declared by Congress under
                                                                 2 section 8 of article I of the Constitution.
                                                                 3               ‘‘SECTION 5. Sections 1 and 2 of this Article may
                                                                 4 be suspended by a concurrent resolution approved by a
                                                                 5 three-fifths vote of the Members of the Senate and a two-
                                                                 6 thirds vote of the Members of the House of Representa-
                                                                 7 tives. Any suspension of sections 1 and 2 of this Article
                                                                 8 under this section shall be effective only during the fiscal
                                                                 9 year during which such suspension is approved.
                                                               10                ‘‘SECTION 6. Congress shall have power to enforce
                                                               11 this Article by appropriate legislation.
                                                               12                ‘‘SECTION 7. This Article shall take effect on the first
                                                               13 day of the first fiscal year beginning after the date of the
                                                               14 adoption of this Article.’’.
                                                                                                                          Æ
tjames on DSK6SPTVN1PROD with




                                                                            •HJ 17 IH

