                                                                                                                                   IA




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       H. J. RES. 29
                                  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States providing
                                      that the rights extended by the Constitution are the rights of natural
                                      persons only.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                FEBRUARY 14, 2013
                                        Mr. NOLAN (for himself and Mr. POCAN) introduced the following joint
                                          resolution; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary




                                              JOINT RESOLUTION
                                  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                     States providing that the rights extended by the Con-
                                     stitution are the rights of natural persons only.
                                    1              Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                    2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled
                                    3 (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                    4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-
                                    5 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                    6 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
                                    7 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several




                                    8 States within seven years after the date of its submission
                                    9 for ratification:


                                                                                             2
                                    1                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                    2              ‘‘SECTION 1. The rights protected by the Constitution
                                    3 of the United States are the rights of natural persons only.
                                    4 Artificial entities, such as corporations, limited liability
                                    5 companies, and other entities, established by the laws of
                                    6 any State, the United States, or any foreign state shall
                                    7 have no rights under this Constitution and are subject to
                                    8 regulation by the People, through Federal, State, or local
                                    9 law. The privileges of artificial entities shall be determined
                                  10 by the People, through Federal, State, or local law, and
                                  11 shall not be construed to be inherent or inalienable.
                                  12               ‘‘SECTION 2. Federal, State and local government
                                  13 shall regulate, limit, or prohibit contributions and expendi-
                                  14 tures, including a candidate’s own contributions and ex-
                                  15 penditures, for the purpose of influencing in any way the
                                  16 election of any candidate for public office or any ballot
                                  17 measure. Federal, State and local government shall re-
                                  18 quire that any permissible contributions and expenditures
                                  19 be publicly disclosed. The judiciary shall not construe the
                                  20 spending of money to influence elections to be speech
                                  21 under the First Amendment.
                                  22               ‘‘SECTION 3. Nothing contained in this amendment
                                  23 shall be construed to abridge the freedom of the press.’’.
                                              •HJ 29 IH                                    Æ
