                                                                                                                                   IA




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       H. J. RES. 33
                                  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to prohibit
                                      a law increasing the compensation for the services of the Senators and
                                      Representatives from taking effect until an election of Representatives
                                      has intervened, and to permit a law otherwise varying such compensation
                                      to take effect upon enactment.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                            MARCH 6, 2013
                                    Mr. BARROW             of Georgia introduced the following joint resolution; which was
                                                              referred to the Committee on the Judiciary




                                              JOINT RESOLUTION
                                  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                     States to prohibit a law increasing the compensation
                                     for the services of the Senators and Representatives from
                                     taking effect until an election of Representatives has
                                     intervened, and to permit a law otherwise varying such
                                     compensation to take effect upon enactment.
                                    1              Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                    2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled
                                    3 (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                    4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-




                                    5 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                    6 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when


                                                                                             2
                                    1 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
                                    2 States within seven years after the date of its submission
                                    3 for ratification:
                                    4                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                    5              ‘‘SECTION 1. No law increasing the compensation for
                                    6 the services of the Senators and Representatives shall take
                                    7 effect until an election of Representatives shall have inter-
                                    8 vened.
                                    9              ‘‘SECTION 2. The twenty-seventh article of amend-
                                  10 ment to the Constitution of the United States is hereby
                                  11 repealed.’’.
                                              •HJ 33 IH                                    Æ
