                                                                                                                                   IA




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       H. J. RES. 36
                                     Proposing a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution requiring that
                                                 each agency and department’s funding is justified.




                                                IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                               MARCH 14, 2013
                                  Mr. PERRY (for himself, Mr. PITTS, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. ROSS, Mr. SALMON,
                                      and Mr. MCKINLEY) introduced the following joint resolution; which was
                                      referred to the Committee on the Judiciary




                                              JOINT RESOLUTION
                                  Proposing a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution
                                     requiring that each agency and department’s funding
                                     is justified.
                                    1              Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                    2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled
                                    3 (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                    4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-
                                    5 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                    6 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
                                    7 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several




                                    8 States within seven years after the date of its submission
                                    9 for ratification:


                                                                                             2
                                    1                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                    2              ‘‘SECTION 1. Total outlays for any fiscal year shall
                                    3 not exceed total receipts for that fiscal year, unless three-
                                    4 fifths of the whole number of each House of Congress shall
                                    5 provide by law for a specific excess of outlays over receipts
                                    6 by a rollcall vote, but in no event shall total outlays for
                                    7 any fiscal year exceed the following: for the first fiscal year
                                    8 for which this article takes effect, 20 percent of the esti-
                                    9 mated gross domestic product of the United States for
                                  10 that year, and for each subsequent fiscal year, a percent-
                                  11 age of the estimated gross domestic product equal to the
                                  12 applicable percentage for the preceding fiscal year reduced
                                  13 by .1 percentage point. Under this section, total spending
                                  14 for any fiscal year is not required to be less than 16 per-
                                  15 cent of the estimated gross domestic product of the United
                                  16 States.
                                  17               ‘‘SECTION 2. The limit on the debt of the United
                                  18 States held by the public shall not be increased, unless
                                  19 three-fifths of the whole number of each House shall pro-
                                  20 vide by law for such an increase by a rollcall vote.
                                  21               ‘‘SECTION 3. Prior to each fiscal year, the President
                                  22 shall transmit to the Congress a proposed budget for the
                                  23 United States Government for that fiscal year in which




                                  24 total outlays do not exceed total receipts.
                                              •HJ 36 IH

                                                                                             3
                                    1              ‘‘SECTION 4. No bill to increase revenue shall become
                                    2 law unless approved by a three-fifths majority of the whole
                                    3 number of each House by a rollcall vote.
                                    4              ‘‘SECTION 5. Any budget plan for a fiscal year for
                                    5 the Government submitted by the President to the Con-
                                    6 gress shall include a justification by each department or
                                    7 agency of the Government for any funding proposed for
                                    8 that department or agency in that plan. The justification
                                    9 shall include a justification each line item in the budget
                                  10 of that department or agency based upon its effect on car-
                                  11 rying out its mission and its effect, if any, on the gross
                                  12 domestic product of the United States and an additional
                                  13 funding level below the requested number that would allow
                                  14 that department or agency to complete all of its critical
                                  15 mission functions.
                                  16               ‘‘SECTION 6. Total receipts shall include all receipts
                                  17 of the United States Government except those derived
                                  18 from borrowing. Total outlays shall include all outlays of
                                  19 the United States Government except for those for repay-
                                  20 ment of debt principal.
                                  21               ‘‘SECTION 7. The Congress shall enforce and imple-
                                  22 ment this article by appropriate legislation, which may rely
                                  23 on estimates of outlays and receipts.





                                  24               ‘‘SECTION 8. The Congress may waive the provisions
                                  25 of this article for any fiscal year in which a declaration


                                              •HJ 36 IH

                                                                                             4
                                    1 of war is in effect. The provisions of this article may be
                                    2 waived for any fiscal year in which the United States is
                                    3 engaged in military conflict or after any event which
                                    4 causes an imminent and serious military threat to national
                                    5 security and is so declared by a joint resolution or during
                                    6 which a natural disaster is declared by a joint resolution,
                                    7 adopted by a vote by two-thirds of each House, which be-
                                    8 comes law.
                                    9              ‘‘SECTION 9. This article shall take effect beginning
                                  10 with the earlier of the tenth fiscal year beginning after
                                  11 its ratification or the first fiscal year beginning after any
                                  12 fiscal year in which the budget of the United States is
                                  13 not in deficit.’’.
                                              •HJ 36 IH                                    Æ
