                                                                                                                                                               IA




                                                                113TH CONGRESS
                                                                   1ST SESSION                        H. J. RES. 4
                                                                   Proposing a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                                                                                  States.




                                                                              IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                                                                               JANUARY 3, 2013
                                                                   Mr. BARROW (for himself and Mr. CUELLAR) introduced the following joint
                                                                       resolution; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary




                                                                            JOINT RESOLUTION
                                                                 Proposing a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution
                                                                                    of the United States.
                                                                  1               Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                                                  2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled
                                                                  3 (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                                                  4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-
                                                                  5 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                                                  6 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
                                                                  7 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
                                                                  8 States within seven years after the date of its submission
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with                                    9 for ratification:
                                                                                                                           2
                                                                  1                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                                                  2               ‘‘SECTION 1. Total outlays for any fiscal year shall
                                                                  3 not exceed total receipts for that fiscal year, unless three-
                                                                  4 fifths of the whole number of each House of Congress shall
                                                                  5 provide by law for a specific excess of outlays over receipts
                                                                  6 by a rollcall vote.
                                                                  7               ‘‘SECTION 2. Prior to each fiscal year, the President
                                                                  8 shall transmit to the Congress a proposed budget for the
                                                                  9 United States Government for that fiscal year in which
                                                                10 total outlays do not exceed total receipts.
                                                                11                ‘‘SECTION 3. The Congress may waive the provisions
                                                                12 of this article for any fiscal year in which a declaration
                                                                13 of war is in effect. The provisions of this article may be
                                                                14 waived for any fiscal year in which the United States is
                                                                15 engaged in military conflict which causes an imminent and
                                                                16 serious military threat to national security and is so de-
                                                                17 clared by a joint resolution, adopted by a majority of the
                                                                18 whole number of each House, which becomes law.
                                                                19                ‘‘SECTION 4. The Congress shall enforce and imple-
                                                                20 ment this article by appropriate legislation, which may rely
                                                                21 on estimates of outlays and receipts. The appropriate com-
                                                                22 mittees of the House of Representatives and the Senate
                                                                23 shall report to their respective Houses implementing legis-
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with                                  24 lation to achieve a balanced budget without reducing the
                                                                25 disbursements of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors In-


                                                                             •HJ 4 IH

                                                                                                                           3
                                                                  1 surance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance
                                                                  2 Trust Fund to achieve that goal.
                                                                  3               ‘‘SECTION 5. Total receipts shall include all receipts
                                                                  4 of the United States Government except those derived
                                                                  5 from borrowing. Total outlays shall include all outlays of
                                                                  6 the United States Government except for those for repay-
                                                                  7 ment of debt principal.
                                                                  8               ‘‘SECTION 6. This article shall take effect beginning
                                                                  9 with the later of the second fiscal year beginning after its
                                                                10 ratification or the first fiscal year beginning after Decem-
                                                                11 ber 31, 2022.’’.
                                                                                                                           Æ
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with




                                                                             •HJ 4 IH

