                                                                                                                                   IIA




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       S. J. RES. 11
                                  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to restore
                                      the rights of the American people that were taken away by the Supreme
                                      Court’s decision in the Citizens United case and related decisions, to
                                      protect the integrity of our elections, and to limit the corrosive influence
                                      of money in our democratic process.




                                              IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                                          MARCH 13, 2013
                                    Mr. SANDERS            introduced the following joint resolution; which was read twice
                                                           and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary




                                              JOINT RESOLUTION
                                  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                     States to restore the rights of the American people that
                                     were taken away by the Supreme Court’s decision in
                                     the Citizens United case and related decisions, to protect
                                     the integrity of our elections, and to limit the corrosive
                                     influence of money in our democratic process.
                                    1              Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                    2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled (two-
                                    3 thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                    4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-




                                    5 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                    6 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when


                                                                                             2
                                    1 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
                                    2 States:
                                    3                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                    4              ‘‘SECTION 1. Whereas the right to vote in public elec-
                                    5 tions belongs only to natural persons as citizens of the
                                    6 United States, so shall the ability to make contributions
                                    7 and expenditures to influence the outcome of public elec-
                                    8 tions belong only to natural persons in accordance with
                                  109 this Article.‘‘SECTION 2. Nothing in this Constitution shall be
                                  11 construed to restrict the power of Congress and the States
                                  12 to protect the integrity and fairness of the electoral proc-
                                  13 ess, limit the corrupting influence of private wealth in pub-
                                  14 lic elections, and guarantee the dependence of elected offi-
                                  15 cials on the people alone by taking actions which may in-
                                  16 clude the establishment of systems of public financing for
                                  17 elections, the imposition of requirements to ensure the dis-
                                  18 closure of contributions and expenditures made to influ-
                                  19 ence the outcome of a public election by candidates, indi-
                                  20 viduals, and associations of individuals, and the imposition
                                  21 of content neutral limitations on all such contributions
                                  22 and expenditures.
                                  23               ‘‘SECTION 3. Nothing in this Article shall be con-




                                  24 strued to alter the freedom of the press.
                                              •SJ 11 IS

                                                                                             3
                                    1              ‘‘SECTION 4. Congress and the States shall have the
                                    2 power to enforce this Article through appropriate legisla-
                                    3 tion.’’.
                                              •SJ 11 IS                                    Æ
