                                                                                                                                                               IIA




                                                                113TH CONGRESS
                                                                   1ST SESSION                        S. J. RES. 2
                                                                    Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States relative
                                                                     to limiting the number of terms that a Member of Congress may serve.




                                                                            IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                                              JANUARY 23 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 2013
                                                                Mr. VITTER (for himself, Mr. PAUL, Ms. AYOTTE, Mr. COBURN, Mr. LEE, Mr.
                                                                    RUBIO, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. TOOMEY, and Mr. JOHNSON of Wisconsin) intro-
                                                                    duced the following joint resolution; which was read twice and referred
                                                                    to the Committee on the Judiciary




                                                                            JOINT RESOLUTION
                                                                Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                                                   States relative to limiting the number of terms that
                                                                   a Member of Congress may serve.
                                                                  1               Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                                                  2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled (two-
                                                                  3 thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                                                  4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-
                                                                  5 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                                                  6 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
tkelley on DSK3SPTVN1PROD with                                    7 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
                                                                  8 States within seven years after the date of its submission
                                                                  9 by the Congress:

                                                                                                                           2
                                                                  1                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                                                  2               ‘‘SECTION 1. No person who has served 3 terms as
                                                                  3 a Representative shall be eligible for election to the House
                                                                  4 of Representatives. For purposes of this section, the elec-
                                                                  5 tion of a person to fill a vacancy in the House of Rep-
                                                                  6 resentatives shall be included as 1 term in determining
                                                                  7 the number of terms that such person has served as a Rep-
                                                                  8 resentative if the person fills the vacancy for more than
                                                                109 1 year.       ‘‘SECTION 2. No person who has served 2 terms as
                                                                11 a Senator shall be eligible for election or appointment to
                                                                12 the Senate. For purposes of this section, the election or
                                                                13 appointment of a person to fill a vacancy in the Senate
                                                                14 shall be included as 1 term in determining the number
                                                                15 of terms that such person has served as a Senator if the
                                                                16 person fills the vacancy for more than 3 years.
                                                                17                ‘‘SECTION 3. No term beginning before the date of
                                                                18 the ratification of this article shall be taken into account
                                                                19 in determining eligibility for election or appointment under
                                                                20 this article.’’.
                                                                                                                           Æ
tkelley on DSK3SPTVN1PROD with




                                                                             •SJ 2 IS

