                                                                                                                                                                IIA




                                                                 113TH CONGRESS
                                                                    1ST SESSION                        S. J. RES. 3
                                                                 Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States relative
                                                                     to limiting the number of terms that a Member of Congress may serve
                                                                     to 3 in the House of Representatives and 2 in the Senate.




                                                                             IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                                                JANUARY 23 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 2013
                                                                 Mr. PAUL (for himself and Mr. VITTER) introduced the following joint resolu-
                                                                     tion; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on the Judici-
                                                                     ary




                                                                             JOINT RESOLUTION
                                                                 Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                                                    States relative to limiting the number of terms that
                                                                    a Member of Congress may serve to 3 in the House
                                                                    of Representatives and 2 in the Senate.
                                                                   1               Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                                                   2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled (two-
                                                                   3 thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                                                   4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-
                                                                   5 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                                                   6 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
smartinez on DSK6TPVN1PROD with                                    7 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
                                                                   8 States:


                                                                                                                            2
                                                                   1                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                                                   2               ‘‘SECTION 1. No person who has served three terms
                                                                   3 as a Representative shall be eligible for election to the
                                                                   4 House of Representatives. For purposes of this section,
                                                                   5 the election of a person to fill a vacancy in the House of
                                                                   6 Representatives shall be included as one term in deter-
                                                                   7 mining the number of terms that such person has served
                                                                   8 as a Representative if the person fills the vacancy for more
                                                                 109 than one year.‘‘SECTION 2. No person who has served two terms
                                                                 11 as a Senator shall be eligible for election or appointment
                                                                 12 to the Senate. For purposes of this section, the election
                                                                 13 or appointment of a person to fill a vacancy in the Senate
                                                                 14 shall be included as one term in determining the number
                                                                 15 of terms that such person has served as a Senator if the
                                                                 16 person fills the vacancy for more than three years.
                                                                 17                ‘‘SECTION 3. No term beginning before the date of
                                                                 18 the ratification of this article shall be taken into account
                                                                 19 in determining eligibility for election or appointment under
                                                                 20 this article.’’.
                                                                                                                            Æ
smartinez on DSK6TPVN1PROD with




                                                                              •SJ 3 IS

