                                                                                                                                                                 IIA




                                                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                                                     1ST SESSION                        S. J. RES. 5
                                                                  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States relative
                                                                      to authorizing regulation of contributions to candidates for State public
                                                                      office and Federal office by corporations, entities organized and operated
                                                                      for profit, and labor organizations, and expenditures by such entities
                                                                      and labor organizations in support of, or opposition to such candidates.




                                                                              IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                                                               JANUARY 28, 2013
                                                                  Mr. BAUCUS (for himself and Mr. TESTER) introduced the following joint res-
                                                                      olution; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on the Judi-
                                                                      ciary




                                                                              JOINT RESOLUTION
                                                                  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                                                     States relative to authorizing regulation of contributions
                                                                     to candidates for State public office and Federal office
                                                                     by corporations, entities organized and operated for prof-
                                                                     it, and labor organizations, and expenditures by such
                                                                     entities and labor organizations in support of, or opposi-
                                                                     tion to such candidates.
                                                                    1               Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                                                    2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled (two-
srobinson on DSK4SPTVN1PROD with                                    3 thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-
                                                                    4 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-



                                                                                                                             2
                                                                    1 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                                                    2 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
                                                                    3 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
                                                                    4 States within seven years after the date of its submission
                                                                    5 by the Congress:
                                                                    6                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                                                    7               ‘‘SECTION 1. Congress shall have the power to regu-
                                                                    8 late the contribution of funds by corporations, entities or-
                                                                    9 ganized and operated for profit, and labor organizations
                                                                  10 to a candidate for election to, or for nomination for elec-
                                                                  11 tion to, a Federal office, and the power to regulate the
                                                                  12 expenditure of funds by corporations, entities organized
                                                                  13 and operated for profit, and labor organizations made in
                                                                  14 support of, or opposition to, such candidates.
                                                                  15                ‘‘SECTION 2. A State shall have the power to regulate
                                                                  16 the contribution of funds by corporations, entities orga-
                                                                  17 nized and operated for profit, and labor organizations to
                                                                  18 a candidate for election to, or for nomination for election
                                                                  19 to, public office in the State, and the power to regulate
                                                                  20 the expenditure of funds by corporations, entities orga-
                                                                  21 nized and operated for profit, and labor organizations
srobinson on DSK4SPTVN1PROD with                                  22 made in support of, or opposition to, such candidates.
                                                                               •SJ 5 IS

                                                                                                                             3
                                                                    1               ‘‘SECTION 3. Nothing contained in this Amendment
                                                                    2 shall be construed to allow Congress or a State to make
                                                                    3 any law abridging the freedom of the press.’’.
                                                                                                                             Æ
srobinson on DSK4SPTVN1PROD with




                                                                               •SJ 5 IS

