                                                                                                                                   III




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       S. RES. 65
                                  Strongly supporting the full implementation of United States and inter-
                                      national sanctions on Iran and urging the President to continue to
                                      strengthen enforcement of sanctions legislation.




                                              IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                              FEBRUARY 28, 2013
                                  Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms. AYOTTE, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr.
                                      CORNYN, Mrs. BOXER, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. CASEY, Mr. HOEVEN, Mrs.
                                      GILLIBRAND, Mr. KIRK, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. CARDIN,
                                      Ms. COLLINS, Mr. BEGICH, Mr. BLUNT, Mr. BROWN, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
                                      PORTMAN, Mr. MANCHIN, and Mr. LAUTENBERG) submitted the fol-
                                      lowing resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
                                      tions




                                                              RESOLUTION
                                  Strongly supporting the full implementation of United States
                                      and international sanctions on Iran and urging the Presi-
                                      dent to continue to strengthen enforcement of sanctions
                                      legislation.

                                  Whereas, on May 14, 1948, the people of Israel proclaimed
                                     the establishment of the sovereign and independent State
                                     of Israel;
                                  Whereas, on March 28, 1949, the United States Government





                                     recognized the establishment of the new State of Israel
                                     and established full diplomatic relations;




                                                                                             2
                                  Whereas, since its establishment nearly 65 years ago, the
                                     modern State of Israel has rebuilt a nation, forged a new
                                     and dynamic democratic society, and created a thriving
                                     economic, political, cultural, and intellectual life despite
                                     the heavy costs of war, terrorism, and unjustified diplo-
                                     matic and economic boycotts against the people of Israel;
                                  Whereas the people of Israel have established a vibrant, plu-
                                     ralistic, democratic political system, including freedom of
                                     speech, association, and religion; a vigorously free press;
                                     free, fair, and open elections; the rule of law; a fully inde-
                                     pendent judiciary; and other democratic principles and
                                     practices;
                                  Whereas, since the 1979 revolution in Iran, the leaders of the
                                     Islamic Republic of Iran have repeatedly made threats
                                     against the existence of the State of Israel and sponsored
                                     acts of terrorism and violence against its citizens;
                                  Whereas, on October 27, 2005, President of Iran Mahmoud
                                     Ahmadinejad called for a world without America and Zi-
                                     onism;
                                  Whereas, in February 2012, Supreme Leader of Iran Ali
                                     Khamenei said of Israel, ‘‘The Zionist regime is a true
                                     cancer tumor on this region that should be cut off. And
                                     it definitely will be cut off.’’;
                                  Whereas, in August 2012, Supreme Leader Khamenei said of
                                     Israel, ‘‘This bogus and fake Zionist outgrowth will dis-
                                     appear off the landscape of geography.’’;
                                  Whereas, in August 2012, President Ahmadinejad said that
                                     ‘‘in the new Middle East . . . there will be no trace of





                                     the American presence and the Zionists’’;
                                  Whereas the Department of State has designated the Islamic
                                     Republic of Iran as a state sponsor of terrorism since
                                              •SRES 65 IS

                                                                                             3
                                          1984 and has characterized the Islamic Republic of Iran
                                          as the ‘‘most active state sponsor of terrorism’’ in the
                                          world;
                                  Whereas the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran has
                                     provided weapons, training, funding, and direction to ter-
                                     rorist groups, including Hamas, Hizballah, and Shiite mi-
                                     litias in Iraq that are responsible for the murder of hun-
                                     dreds of United States service members and innocent ci-
                                     vilians;
                                  Whereas the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran has
                                     provided weapons, training, and funding to the regime of
                                     Bashar al Assad that has been used to suppress and
                                     murder its own people;
                                  Whereas, since at least the late 1980s, the Government of the
                                     Islamic Republic of Iran has engaged in a sustained and
                                     well-documented pattern of illicit and deceptive activities
                                     to acquire a nuclear weapons capability;
                                  Whereas, since September 2005, the Board of Governors of
                                     the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has
                                     found the Islamic Republic of Iran to be in non-compli-
                                     ance with its safeguards agreement with the IAEA, which
                                     Iran is obligated to undertake as a non-nuclear-weapon
                                     State Party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
                                     Nuclear Weapons, done at Washington, London, and
                                     Moscow July 1, 1968, and entered into force March 5,
                                     1970 (NPT);
                                  Whereas the United Nations Security Council has adopted
                                     multiple resolutions since 2006 demanding of the Govern-
                                     ment of the Islamic Republic of Iran its full and sus-





                                     tained suspension of all uranium enrichment-related and
                                     reprocessing activities and its full cooperation with the

                                              •SRES 65 IS

                                                                                             4
                                          IAEA on all outstanding issues related to its nuclear ac-
                                          tivities, particularly those concerning the possible military
                                          dimensions of its nuclear program;
                                  Whereas the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran has
                                     refused to comply with United Nations Security Council
                                     resolutions or to fully cooperate with the IAEA;
                                  Whereas, in November 2011, the IAEA Director General
                                     issued a report that documented ‘‘serious concerns re-
                                     garding possible military dimensions to Iran’s nuclear
                                     programme,’’ and affirmed that information available to
                                     the IAEA indicates that ‘‘Iran has carried out activities
                                     relevant to the development of a nuclear explosive device’’
                                     and that some activities may be ongoing;
                                  Whereas the Government of Iran stands in violation of the
                                     Universal Declaration of Human Rights for denying its
                                     citizens basic freedoms, including the freedoms of expres-
                                     sion, religion, peaceful assembly and movement, and for
                                     flagrantly abusing the rights of minorities and women;
                                  Whereas in his State of the Union Address on January 24,
                                     2012, President Barack Obama stated, ‘‘Let there be no
                                     doubt: America is determined to prevent Iran from get-
                                     ting a nuclear weapon, and I will take no options off the
                                     table to achieve that goal.’’;
                                  Whereas Congress has passed and the President has signed
                                     into law legislation imposing significant economic and
                                     diplomatic sanctions on Iran to encourage the Govern-
                                     ment of Iran to abandon its pursuit of nuclear weapons
                                     and end its support for terrorism;





                                  Whereas these sanctions, while having significant effect, have
                                     yet to persuade Iran to abandon its illicit pursuits and
                                     comply with United Nations Security Council resolutions;

                                              •SRES 65 IS

                                                                                             5
                                  Whereas more stringent enforcement of sanctions legislation,
                                     including elements targeting oil exports and access to for-
                                     eign exchange, could still lead the Government of Iran to
                                     change course;
                                  Whereas, in his State of the Union Address on February 12,
                                     2013, President Obama reiterated, ‘‘The leaders of Iran
                                     must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic so-
                                     lution, because a coalition stands united in demanding
                                     that they meet their obligations. And we will do what is
                                     necessary to prevent them from getting a nuclear weap-
                                     on.’’;
                                  Whereas, on March 4, 2012, President Obama stated, ‘‘Iran’s
                                     leaders should understand that I do not have a policy of
                                     containment; I have a policy to prevent Iran from obtain-
                                     ing a nuclear weapon.’’;
                                  Whereas, on October 22, 2012, President Obama said of
                                     Iran, ‘‘The clock is ticking . . . And we’re going to make
                                     sure that if they do not meet the demands of the inter-
                                     national community, then we are going to take all options
                                     necessary to make sure they don’t have a nuclear weap-
                                     on.’’;
                                  Whereas, on May 19, 2011, President Obama stated, ‘‘Every
                                     state has the right to self-defense, and Israel must be
                                     able to defend itself, by itself, against any threat.’’;
                                  Whereas, on September 21, 2011, President Obama stated,
                                     ‘‘America’s commitment to Israel’s security is
                                     unshakeable. Our friendship with Israel is deep and en-
                                     during.’’;





                                  Whereas, on March 4, 2012, President Obama stated, ‘‘And
                                     whenever an effort is made to delegitimize the state of
                                     Israel, my administration has opposed them. So there

                                              •SRES 65 IS

                                                                                             6
                                          should not be a shred of doubt by now: when the chips
                                          are down, I have Israel’s back.’’;
                                  Whereas, on October 22, 2012, President Obama stated,
                                     ‘‘Israel is a true friend. And if Israel is attacked, Amer-
                                     ica will stand with Israel. I’ve made that clear throughout
                                     my presidency . . . I will stand with Israel if they are
                                     attacked.’’;
                                  Whereas, in December 2012, 74 United States Senators
                                     wrote to President Obama ‘‘As you begin your second
                                     term as President, we ask you to reiterate your readiness
                                     to take military action against Iran if it continues its ef-
                                     forts to acquire a nuclear weapon. In addition, we urge
                                     you to work with our European and Middle Eastern allies
                                     to demonstrate to the Iranians that a credible and capa-
                                     ble multilateral coalition exists that would support a mili-
                                     tary strike if, in the end, this is unfortunately nec-
                                     essary.’’; and
                                  Whereas the United States-Israel Enhanced Security Co-
                                     operation Act of 2012 (Public Law 112–150) stated that
                                     it is United States policy to support Israel’s inherent
                                     right to self-defense: Now, therefore, be it
                                    1              Resolved,
                                    2     SECTION 1. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
                                    3              Congress—
                                    4                        (1) reaffirms the special bonds of friendship
                                    5              and cooperation that have existed between the
                                    6              United States and the State of Israel for more than




                                    7              sixty years and that enjoy overwhelming bipartisan
                                              •SRES 65 IS

                                                                                             7
                                    1              support in Congress and among the people of the
                                    2              United States;
                                    3                        (2) strongly supports the close military, intel-
                                    4              ligence, and security cooperation that President
                                    5              Obama has pursued with Israel and urges this co-
                                    6              operation to continue and deepen;
                                    7                        (3) deplores and condemns, in the strongest
                                    8              possible terms, the reprehensible statements and
                                    9              policies of the leaders of the Islamic Republic of Iran
                                  10               threatening the security and existence of Israel;
                                  11                         (4) recognizes the tremendous threat posed to
                                  12               the United States, the West, and Israel by the Gov-
                                  13               ernment of Iran’s continuing pursuit of a nuclear
                                  14               weapons capability;
                                  15                         (5) reiterates that the policy of the United
                                  16               States is to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear
                                  17               weapon capability and to take such action as may be
                                  18               necessary to implement this policy;
                                  19                         (6) reaffirms its strong support for the full im-
                                  20               plementation of United States and international
                                  21               sanctions on Iran and urges the President to con-
                                  22               tinue and strengthen enforcement of sanctions legis-
                                  23               lation;





                                  24                         (7) declares that the United States has a vital
                                  25               national interest in, and unbreakable commitment


                                              •SRES 65 IS

                                                                                             8
                                    1              to, ensuring the existence, survival, and security of
                                    2              the State of Israel, and reaffirms United States sup-
                                    3              port for Israel’s right to self-defense; and
                                    4                        (8) urges that, if the Government of Israel is
                                    5              compelled to take military action in self-defense, the
                                    6              United States Government should stand with Israel
                                    7              and provide diplomatic, military, and economic sup-
                                    8              port to the Government of Israel in its defense of its
                                    9              territory, people, and existence.
                                  10      SEC. 2. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
                                  11               Nothing in this resolution shall be construed as an
                                  12 authorization for the use of force or a declaration of war.
                                              •SRES 65 IS                                  Æ
