                                                                                                                                    III




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       S. RES. 66
                                     Designating the first week of April 2013 as ‘‘National Asbestos Awareness
                                                                      Week’’.




                                              IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                              FEBRUARY 28, 2013
                                  Mr. BAUCUS (for himself, Mr. TESTER, Mrs. BOXER, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
                                      REID, Mr. DURBIN, and Mr. ISAKSON) submitted the following resolution;
                                      which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

                                                                         MARCH 18, 2013
                                                           Committee discharged; considered and agreed to




                                                              RESOLUTION
                                         Designating the first week of April 2013 as ‘‘National
                                                     Asbestos Awareness Week’’.

                                  Whereas dangerous asbestos fibers are invisible and cannot
                                     be smelled or tasted;
                                  Whereas the inhalation of airborne asbestos fibers can cause
                                     significant damage;
                                  Whereas asbestos fibers can cause cancer such as mesothe-
                                     lioma and asbestosis and other health problems;
                                  Whereas asbestos-related diseases can take 10 to 50 years to
                                     present themselves;





                                  Whereas the expected survival time for those diagnosed with
                                     mesothelioma is between 6 and 24 months;

                                                                                             2
                                  Whereas, generally, little is known about late-stage treatment
                                     of asbestos-related diseases, and there is no cure for such
                                     diseases;
                                  Whereas early detection of asbestos-related diseases may give
                                     some patients increased treatment options and might im-
                                     prove their prognoses;
                                  Whereas the United States has substantially reduced its con-
                                     sumption of asbestos, yet continues to consume almost
                                     1,100 metric tons of the fibrous mineral for use in cer-
                                     tain products throughout the United States;
                                  Whereas asbestos-related diseases have killed thousands of
                                     people in the United States;
                                  Whereas exposure to asbestos continues, but safety and pre-
                                     vention of asbestos exposure already have significantly re-
                                     duced the incidence of asbestos-related diseases and can
                                     further reduce the incidence of such diseases;
                                  Whereas asbestos has been a cause of occupational cancer;
                                  Whereas thousands of workers in the United States face sig-
                                     nificant asbestos exposure;
                                  Whereas thousands of people in the United States die from
                                     asbestos-related diseases every year;
                                  Whereas a significant percentage of all asbestos-related dis-
                                     ease victims were exposed to asbestos on naval ships and
                                     in shipyards;
                                  Whereas asbestos was used in the construction of a signifi-
                                     cant number of office buildings and public facilities built
                                     before 1975;
                                  Whereas people in the small community of Libby, Montana,





                                     suffer from asbestos-related diseases, including mesothe-


                                              SRES 66 ATS

                                                                                             3
                                          lioma, at a significantly higher rate than people in the
                                          United States as a whole; and
                                  Whereas the establishment of a ‘‘National Asbestos Aware-
                                     ness Week’’ will raise public awareness about the preva-
                                     lence of asbestos-related diseases and the dangers of as-
                                     bestos exposure: Now, therefore, be it
                                    1              Resolved, That the Senate—
                                    2                        (1) designates the first week of April 2013 as
                                    3              ‘‘National Asbestos Awareness Week’’;
                                    4                        (2) urges the Surgeon General to warn and
                                    5              educate people about the public health issue of as-
                                    6              bestos exposure, which may be hazardous to their
                                    7              health; and
                                    8                        (3) respectfully requests that the Secretary of
                                    9              the Senate transmit a copy of this resolution to the
                                  10               Office of the Surgeon General.
                                              SRES 66 ATS                                    Æ
