                                                                                                                                    III




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       S. RES. 73
                                                  Designating March 11, 2013, as ‘‘World Plumbing Day’’.




                                              IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                               MARCH 7, 2013
                                  Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr. HATCH, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
                                      BOOZMAN, and Mrs. MURRAY) submitted the following resolution; which
                                      was considered and agreed to




                                                              RESOLUTION
                                      Designating March 11, 2013, as ‘‘World Plumbing Day’’.

                                  Whereas the plumbing industry plays an important role in
                                     safeguarding the public health of the people of the United
                                     States and the world;
                                  Whereas 884,000,000 people around the world do not have
                                     access to safe drinking water;
                                  Whereas 2,600,000,000 people around the world live without
                                     adequate sanitation facilities;
                                  Whereas lack of sanitation is the leading cause of infection
                                     in the world;
                                  Whereas, in the developing world, 24,000 children under the





                                     age of 5 die every day from preventable causes, such as
                                     diarrhea contracted from unclean water;




                                                                                             2
                                  Whereas safe and efficient plumbing saves money and re-
                                     duces future water supply costs and infrastructure costs;
                                  Whereas the installation of modern plumbing systems must
                                     be accomplished in a specific and safe manner by trained
                                     professionals to prevent widespread disease, which can be
                                     crippling and deadly to a community;
                                  Whereas the people of the United States rely on plumbing
                                     professionals to maintain, repair, and rebuild the aging
                                     water infrastructure of the United States;
                                  Whereas Congress and plumbing professionals across the
                                     United States and the world are committed to safe-
                                     guarding public health; and
                                  Whereas the founding organization of World Plumbing Day,
                                     the World Plumbing Council, is currently chaired by GP
                                     Russ Chaney, a United States citizen: Now, therefore, be
                                    1it            Resolved, That the Senate designates March 11,
                                    2 2013, as ‘‘World Plumbing Day’’.
                                              •SRES 73 ATS                                 Æ
