                                                                                                                                   III




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       S. RES. 75
                                  Condemning the Government of Iran for its state-sponsored persecution of
                                      its Baha’i minority and its continued violation of the International Cov-
                                      enants on Human Rights.




                                              IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                               MARCH 12, 2013
                                    Mr. KIRK (for himself and Mr. DURBIN) submitted the following resolution;
                                           which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations




                                                              RESOLUTION
                                  Condemning the Government of Iran for its state-sponsored
                                     persecution of its Baha’i minority and its continued vio-
                                     lation of the International Covenants on Human Rights.

                                  Whereas, in 1982, 1984, 1988, 1990, 1992, 1994, 1996,
                                     2000, 2006, 2008, 2009, 2012, and 2013, Congress de-
                                     clared that it deplored the religious persecution by the
                                     Government of Iran of the Baha’i community and would
                                     hold the Government of Iran responsible for upholding
                                     the rights of all Iranian nationals, including members of
                                     the Baha’i Faith;
                                  Whereas the United States Commission on International Reli-
                                     gious Freedom 2012 Report stated, ‘‘The Baha’i commu-





                                     nity has long been subject to particularly severe religious
                                     freedom violations in Iran. Baha’is, who number at least


                                                                                             2
                                          300,000, are viewed as ‘heretics’ by Iranian authorities
                                          and may face repression on the grounds of apostasy.’’;
                                  Whereas the United States Commission on International Reli-
                                     gious Freedom 2012 Report stated, ‘‘Since 1979, Iranian
                                     government authorities have killed more than 200 Baha’i
                                     leaders in Iran and dismissed more than 10,000 from
                                     government and university jobs.’’;
                                  Whereas the United States Commission on International Reli-
                                     gious Freedom 2012 Report stated, ‘‘Baha’is may not es-
                                     tablish places of worship, schools, or any independent re-
                                     ligious associations in Iran.’’;
                                  Whereas the United States Commission on International Reli-
                                     gious Freedom 2012 Report stated, ‘‘Baha’is are barred
                                     from the military and denied government jobs and pen-
                                     sions as well as the right to inherit property. Their mar-
                                     riages and divorces also are not recognized, and they
                                     have difficulty obtaining death certificates. Baha’i ceme-
                                     teries, holy places, and community properties are often
                                     seized or desecrated, and many important religious sites
                                     have been destroyed.’’;
                                  Whereas the United States Commission on International Reli-
                                     gious Freedom 2012 Report stated, ‘‘The Baha’i commu-
                                     nity faces severe economic pressure, including denials of
                                     jobs in both the public and private sectors and of busi-
                                     ness licenses. Iranian authorities often pressure employ-
                                     ers of Baha’is to dismiss them from employment in the
                                     private sector.’’;
                                  Whereas the Department of State 2011 International Reli-
                                     gious Freedom Report stated, ‘‘The government prohibits





                                     Baha’is from teaching and practicing their faith and sub-



                                              •SRES 75 IS

                                                                                             3
                                          jects them to many forms of discrimination that followers
                                          of other religions do not face.’’;
                                  Whereas the Department of State 2011 International Reli-
                                     gious Freedom Report stated, ‘‘According to [Iranian]
                                     law, Baha’i blood is considered ‘mobah’, meaning it can
                                     be spilled with impunity.’’;
                                  Whereas the Department of State 2011 International Reli-
                                     gious Freedom Report stated that ‘‘members of religious
                                     minorities, with the exception of Baha’is, can serve in
                                     lower ranks of government employment’’, and ‘‘Baha’is
                                     are barred from all leadership positions in the govern-
                                     ment and military’’;
                                  Whereas the Department of State 2011 International Reli-
                                     gious Freedom Report stated, ‘‘Baha’is suffered frequent
                                     government harassment and persecution, and their prop-
                                     erty rights generally were disregarded. The government
                                     raided Baha’i homes and businesses and confiscated large
                                     amounts of private and commercial property, as well as
                                     religious materials belonging to Baha’is.’’;
                                  Whereas the Department of State 2011 International Reli-
                                     gious Freedom Report stated, ‘‘Baha’is also are required
                                     to register with the police.’’;
                                  Whereas the Department of State 2011 International Reli-
                                     gious Freedom Report stated that ‘‘[p]ublic and private
                                     universities continued to deny admittance to and expelled
                                     Baha’i students’’ and ‘‘[d]uring the year, at least 30 Ba-
                                     ha’is were barred or expelled from universities on political
                                     or religious grounds’’;





                                  Whereas the Department of State 2011 International Reli-
                                     gious Freedom Report stated, ‘‘Baha’is are regularly de-
                                     nied compensation for injury or criminal victimization.’’;

                                              •SRES 75 IS

                                                                                             4
                                  Whereas, on March 6, 2012, the United Nations Special
                                     Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Is-
                                     lamic Republic of Iran issued a report (A/HRC/19/66),
                                     which stated that ‘‘the Special Rapporteur continues to
                                     be alarmed by communications that demonstrate the sys-
                                     temic and systematic persecution of members of unrecog-
                                     nized religious communities, particularly the Baha’i com-
                                     munity, in violation of international conventions’’ and ex-
                                     pressed concern regarding ‘‘an intensive defamation cam-
                                     paign meant to incite discrimination and hate against
                                     Baha’is’’;
                                  Whereas, on May 23, 2012, the United Nations Secretary-
                                     General issued a report (A/HRC/19/82), which stated
                                     that ‘‘the Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or
                                     belief . . . pointed out that the Islamic Republic of Iran
                                     had a policy of systematic persecution of persons belong-
                                     ing to the Baha’i faith, excluding them from the applica-
                                     tion of freedom of religion or belief by simply denying
                                     that their faith had the status of a religion’’;
                                  Whereas, on August 22, 2012, the United Nations Secretary-
                                     General issued a report (A/67/327), which stated, ‘‘The
                                     international community continues to express concerns
                                     about the very serious discrimination against ethnic and
                                     religious minorities in law and in practice, in particular
                                     the Baha’i community. The Special Rapporteur on the
                                     situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran
                                     expressed alarm about the systemic and systematic perse-
                                     cution of members of the Baha’i community, including
                                     severe socioeconomic pressure and arrests and detention.
                                     He also deplored the Government’s tolerance of an inten-





                                     sive defamation campaign aimed at inciting discrimina-
                                     tion and hate against Baha’is.’’;

                                              •SRES 75 IS

                                                                                             5
                                  Whereas, on September 13, 2012, the United Nations Special
                                     Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Is-
                                     lamic Republic of Iran issued a report (A/67/369), which
                                     stated, ‘‘Reports and interviews submitted to the Special
                                     Rapporteur also continue to portray a disturbing trend
                                     with regard to religious freedom in the country. Members
                                     of both recognized and unrecognized religions have re-
                                     ported various levels of intimidation, arrest, detention
                                     and interrogation that focus on their religious beliefs.’’,
                                     and stated, ‘‘At the time of drafting the report, 105
                                     members of the Baha’i community were reported to be in
                                     detention.’’;
                                  Whereas, on November 27, 2012, the Third Committee of the
                                     United Nations General Assembly adopted a draft resolu-
                                     tion (A/C.3/67/L.51), which noted, ‘‘[I]ncreased persecu-
                                     tion and human rights violations against persons belong-
                                     ing to unrecognized religious minorities, particularly
                                     members of the Baha’i faith and their defenders, includ-
                                     ing escalating attacks, an increase in the number of ar-
                                     rests and detentions, the restriction of access to higher
                                     education on the basis of religion, the sentencing of
                                     twelve Baha’is associated with Baha’i educational institu-
                                     tions to lengthy prison terms, the continued denial of ac-
                                     cess to employment in the public sector, additional re-
                                     strictions on participation in the private sector, and the
                                     de facto criminalization of membership in the Baha’i
                                     faith.’’;
                                  Whereas, on December 20, 2012, the United Nations General
                                     Assembly adopted a resolution (A/RES/67/182), which
                                     called upon the government of Iran ‘‘[t]o eliminate dis-





                                     crimination against, and exclusion of . . . members of the
                                     Baha’i Faith, regarding access to higher education, and

                                              •SRES 75 IS

                                                                                             6
                                          to eliminate the criminalization of efforts to provide high-
                                          er education to Baha’i youth denied access to Iranian
                                          universities,’’ and ‘‘to accord all Baha’is, including those
                                          imprisoned because of their beliefs, the due process of
                                          law and the rights that they are constitutionally guaran-
                                          teed’’;
                                  Whereas, on February 28, 2013, the United Nations Special
                                     Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Is-
                                     lamic Republic of Iran issued a report (A/HRC/22/56),
                                     which stated, ‘‘110 Bahai’s are currently detained in Iran
                                     for exercising their faith, including two women, Mrs.
                                     Zohreh Nikayin and Mrs. Taraneh Torabi, who are re-
                                     portedly nursing infants in prison.’’;
                                  Whereas, in March and May of 2008, intelligence officials of
                                     the Government of Iran in Mashhad and Tehran arrested
                                     and imprisoned Mrs. Fariba Kamalabadi, Mr.
                                     Jamaloddin Khanjani, Mr. Afif Naeimi, Mr. Saeid
                                     Rezaie, Mr. Behrouz Tavakkoli, Mrs. Mahvash Sabet,
                                     and Mr. Vahid Tizfahm, the seven members of the ad hoc
                                     leadership group for the Baha’i community in Iran;
                                  Whereas, in August 2010, the Revolutionary Court in Tehran
                                     sentenced the seven Baha’i leaders to 20-year prison
                                     terms on charges of ‘‘spying for Israel, insulting religious
                                     sanctities, propaganda against the regime and spreading
                                     corruption on earth’’;
                                  Whereas the lawyer for these seven leaders, Mrs. Shirin
                                     Ebadi, the Nobel Laureate, was denied meaningful or
                                     timely access to the prisoners and their files, and her suc-
                                     cessors as defense counsel were provided extremely lim-





                                     ited access;



                                              •SRES 75 IS

                                                                                             7
                                  Whereas these seven Baha’i leaders were targeted solely on
                                     the basis of their religion;
                                  Whereas, beginning in May 2011, Government of Iran offi-
                                     cials in four cities conducted sweeping raids on the homes
                                     of dozens of individuals associated with the Baha’i Insti-
                                     tute for Higher Education (BIHE) and arrested and de-
                                     tained several educators associated with BIHE;
                                  Whereas, in October 2011, the Revolutionary Court in
                                     Tehran sentenced seven of these BIHE instructors and
                                     administrators, Mr. Vahid Mahmoudi, Mr. Kamran
                                     Mortezaie, Mr. Mahmoud Badavam, Ms. Nooshin
                                     Khadem, Mr. Farhad Sedghi, Mr. Riaz Sobhani, and Mr.
                                     Ramin Zibaie, to prison terms for the crime of ‘‘member-
                                     ship of the deviant sect of Baha’ism, with the goal of tak-
                                     ing action against the security of the country, in order
                                     to further the aims of the deviant sect and those of orga-
                                     nizations outside the country’’;
                                  Whereas six of these educators remain imprisoned, with Mr.
                                     Mortezaie serving a 5-year prison term and Mr.
                                     Badavam, Ms. Khadem, Mr. Sedghi, Mr. Sobhani, and
                                     Mr. Zibaie serving 4-year prison terms;
                                  Whereas, since October 2011, four other BIHE educators
                                     have been arrested and imprisoned, with Ms. Faran
                                     Hessami, Mr. Kamran Rahimian, and Mr. Shahin Negari
                                     serving 4-year prison terms, and Mr. Kayvan Rahimian
                                     serving a 5-year prison term;
                                  Whereas the efforts of the Government of Iran to collect in-
                                     formation on individual Baha’is have recently intensified
                                     as evidenced by a letter, dated November 5, 2011, from





                                     the Director of the Department of Education in the coun-
                                     ty of Shahriar in the province of Tehran, instructing the

                                              •SRES 75 IS

                                                                                             8
                                          directors of schools in his jurisdiction to ‘‘subtly and in
                                          a confidential manner’’ collect information on Baha’i stu-
                                          dents;
                                  Whereas the Baha’i community continues to undergo intense
                                     economic and social pressure, including an ongoing cam-
                                     paign in the town of Semnan, where the Government of
                                     Iran has harassed and detained Baha’is, closed 17 Baha’i
                                     owned businesses in the last three years, and imprisoned
                                     several members of the community, including three moth-
                                     ers along with their infants;
                                  Whereas ordinary Iranian citizens who belong to the Baha’i
                                     Faith are disproportionately targeted, interrogated, and
                                     detained under the pretext of national security;
                                  Whereas the Government of Iran is party to the International
                                     Covenants on Human Rights and is in violation of its ob-
                                     ligations under the Covenants; and
                                  Whereas the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability,
                                     and Divestment Act of 2010 (Public Law 111–195) au-
                                     thorizes the President and the Secretary of State to im-
                                     pose sanctions on individuals ‘‘responsible for or
                                     complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or
                                     otherwise directing, the commission of serious human
                                     rights abuses against citizens of Iran or their family
                                     members on or after June 12, 2009’’: Now, therefore, be
                                    1it            Resolved, That the Senate—
                                    2                        (1) condemns the Government of Iran for its
                                    3              state-sponsored persecution of its Baha’i minority




                                    4              and its continued violation of the International Cov-
                                    5              enants on Human Rights;

                                              •SRES 75 IS

                                                                                             9
                                    1                        (2) calls on the Government of Iran to imme-
                                    2              diately release the seven imprisoned leaders, the ten
                                    3              imprisoned educators, and all other prisoners held
                                    4              solely on account of their religion;
                                    5                        (3) calls on the President and Secretary of
                                    6              State, in cooperation with responsible nations, to im-
                                    7              mediately condemn the Government of Iran’s contin-
                                    8              ued violation of human rights and demand the im-
                                    9              mediate release of prisoners held solely on account
                                  10               of their religion; and
                                  11                         (4) urges the President and Secretary of State
                                  12               to utilize all available authorities, including the Com-
                                  13               prehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Di-
                                  14               vestment Act of 2010, to impose sanctions on offi-
                                  15               cials of the Government of Iran and other individ-
                                  16               uals directly responsible for serious human rights
                                  17               abuses, including abuses against the Baha’i commu-
                                  18               nity of Iran.
                                              •SRES 75 IS                                  Æ
