                                                                                                                                                                 IIA




                                                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                                                     1ST SESSION                        S. J. RES. 6
                                                                  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States which
                                                                      requires (except during time of war and subject to suspension by Con-
                                                                      gress) that the total amount of money expended by the United States
                                                                      during any fiscal year not exceed the amount of certain revenue received
                                                                      by the United States during such fiscal year and not exceed 20 percent
                                                                      of the gross domestic product of the United States during the previous
                                                                      calendar year.




                                                                              IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                                                              JANUARY 29, 2013
                                                                  Mr. SHELBY (for himself and Mr. BOOZMAN) introduced the following joint
                                                                      resolution; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on the
                                                                      Judiciary




                                                                              JOINT RESOLUTION
                                                                  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
                                                                     States which requires (except during time of war and
                                                                     subject to suspension by Congress) that the total amount
                                                                     of money expended by the United States during any
                                                                     fiscal year not exceed the amount of certain revenue
                                                                     received by the United States during such fiscal year
                                                                     and not exceed 20 percent of the gross domestic product
                                                                     of the United States during the previous calendar year.
smartinez on DSK6TPTVN1PROD with                                    1               Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
                                                                    2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled (two-
                                                                    3 thirds of each House concurring therein), That the fol-


                                                                                                                             2
                                                                    1 lowing article is proposed as an amendment to the Con-
                                                                    2 stitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all
                                                                    3 intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
                                                                    4 ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several
                                                                    5 States within seven years after the date of its submission
                                                                    6 by the Congress:
                                                                    7                                               ‘‘ARTICLE —
                                                                    8               ‘‘SECTION 1. The total amount of money expended
                                                                    9 by the United States in any fiscal year shall not exceed
                                                                  10 the total amount of revenue received by the United States
                                                                  11 during such fiscal year, excluding revenue received from
                                                                  12 the issuance of bonds, notes, or other obligations of the
                                                                  13 United States.
                                                                  14                ‘‘SECTION 2. The total amount of money expended
                                                                  15 by the United States in any fiscal year shall not exceed
                                                                  16 the amount equal to 20 percent of the gross domestic
                                                                  17 product of the United States during the last calendar year
                                                                  18 ending before the beginning of such fiscal year.
                                                                  19                ‘‘SECTION 3. Sections 1 and 2 of this Article shall
                                                                  20 not apply during any fiscal year during any part of which
                                                                  21 the United States is at war as declared by Congress under
                                                                  22 section 8 of Article I of the Constitution.
                                                                  23                ‘‘SECTION 4. Sections 1 and 2 of this Article may
smartinez on DSK6TPTVN1PROD with                                  24 be suspended by a concurrent resolution approved by a
                                                                  25 three-fifths vote of the Members of each House of Con-


                                                                               •SJ 6 IS

                                                                                                                             3
                                                                    1 gress. Any suspension of sections 1 and 2 of this Article
                                                                    2 under this section shall be effective only during the fiscal
                                                                    3 year during which such suspension is approved.
                                                                    4               ‘‘SECTION 5. This Article shall take effect on the first
                                                                    5 day of the first fiscal year beginning after the date of the
                                                                    6 adoption of this Article.
                                                                    7               ‘‘SECTION 6. Congress shall have power to enforce
                                                                    8 this Article by appropriate legislation.’’.
                                                                                                                             Æ
smartinez on DSK6TPTVN1PROD with




                                                                               •SJ 6 IS

