                                                                                                                                                                   III




                                                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                                                     1ST SESSION                        S. RES. 13
                                                                  Congratulating the members of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. for 100
                                                                      years of service to communities throughout the United States and the
                                                                      world, and commending Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. for its pro-
                                                                      motion of sisterhood, scholarship, and service.




                                                                              IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                                                 JANUARY 24 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 2013
                                                                  Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. COCHRAN, Mr. CORNYN, Ms. MI-
                                                                      KULSKI, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. LANDRIEU, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. WARNER,
                                                                      and Mrs. GILLIBRAND) submitted the following resolution; which was re-
                                                                      ferred to the Committee on the Judiciary




                                                                                              RESOLUTION
                                                                  Congratulating the members of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority,
                                                                     Inc. for 100 years of service to communities throughout
                                                                     the United States and the world, and commending Delta
                                                                     Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. for its promotion of sister-
                                                                     hood, scholarship, and service.

                                                                  Whereas, on January 13, 1913, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority,
                                                                     Inc. was founded at Howard University in the District of
                                                                     Columbia by Osceola Macarthy Adams, Marguerite
                                                                     Young Alexander, Winona Cargile Alexander, Ethel Cuff
                                                                     Black, Bertha Pitts Campbell, Zephyr Chisom Carter,
smartinez on DSK6TPTVN1PROD with                                     Edna Brown Coleman, Jessie McGuire Dent, Frederica
                                                                     Chase Dodd, Myra Davis Hemmings, Olive Jones,
                                                                     Jimmie Bugg Middleton, Pauline Oberdorfer Minor,


                                                                                                                             2
                                                                          Vashti Turley Murphy, Naomi Sewell Richardson, Mamie
                                                                          Reddy Rose, Eliza Pearl Shippen, Florence Letcher
                                                                          Toms, Ethel Carr Watson, Wertie Blackwell Weaver,
                                                                          Madree Penn White, and Edith Motte Young;
                                                                  Whereas, on January 13, 2013, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority,
                                                                     Inc. celebrated 100 years of thoughtful service to and
                                                                     conscientious leadership in communities throughout the
                                                                     United States and the world in diverse fields relating to
                                                                     public service and the organization’s five-point pro-
                                                                     grammatic thrust: economic development, educational de-
                                                                     velopment, international awareness and involvement,
                                                                     physical and mental health, and political awareness and
                                                                     involvement;
                                                                  Whereas, in March 1913, the founders of Delta Sigma Theta
                                                                     Sorority, Inc. participated in the Women’s Suffrage
                                                                     March in the District of Columbia, the sorority’s first
                                                                     public act;
                                                                  Whereas, in its infancy, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. es-
                                                                     tablished its Beta chapter at Wilberforce University in
                                                                     Wilberforce, Ohio, its Gamma chapter at the University
                                                                     of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, its Delta
                                                                     chapter at the University of Iowa in Iowa City, Iowa, and
                                                                     its Epsilon chapter at the Ohio State University in Co-
                                                                     lumbus, Ohio;
                                                                  Whereas Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. has more than
                                                                     900 chapters in the United States, England, Japan, Ger-
                                                                     many, the Virgin Islands, Bermuda, the Bahamas, and
                                                                     South Korea;
                                                                  Whereas the women of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. have
smartinez on DSK6TPTVN1PROD with                                     distinguished themselves in the endeavor for civil rights,
                                                                               •SRES 13 IS

                                                                                                                             3
                                                                          including Mary McLeod Bethune, Fannie Lou Hamer,
                                                                          Betty Shabazz, Lena Horne, and Dorothy Irene Height;
                                                                  Whereas the women of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. have
                                                                     distinguished themselves as public servants, including—
                                                                          (1) Stephanie Tubbs-Jones, a Member of the House
                                                                     of Representatives from Ohio;
                                                                          (2) Marcia Fudge, a Member of the House of Rep-
                                                                     resentatives from Ohio;
                                                                          (3) Joyce Beatty, a Member of the House of Rep-
                                                                     resentatives from Ohio;
                                                                          (4) Carrie P. Meek, a Member of the House of Rep-
                                                                     resentatives from Florida;
                                                                          (5) Shirley Chisholm, the first African-American
                                                                     woman elected to Congress and the first African-Amer-
                                                                     ican and woman to run as a major party candidate for
                                                                     President of the United States;
                                                                          (6) Barbara Jordan, the first African-American
                                                                     woman from the South to serve in the House of Rep-
                                                                     resentatives;
                                                                          (7) Carol Mosley Braun, the first and only African-
                                                                     American woman elected to the Senate;
                                                                          (8) Mary Church Terrell, a founder of the National
                                                                     Association for the Advancement of Colored People and
                                                                     an adviser to the Republican National Committee and the
                                                                     Herbert Hoover presidential campaign;
                                                                          (9) Jewel Stradford LaFontant, United States Rep-
                                                                     resentative to the United Nations and the first female
                                                                     Deputy Solicitor General of the United States in the ad-
                                                                     ministration of President Richard M. Nixon, later serving
                                                                     as the United States Coordinator for Refugee Affairs and
smartinez on DSK6TPTVN1PROD with                                     Ambassador-at-Large in the administration of President
                                                                     George H.W. Bush;


                                                                               •SRES 13 IS

                                                                                                                             4
                                                                               (10) Patricia Roberts Harris, the first African-
                                                                          American woman to serve as an Ambassador of the
                                                                          United States, later serving as Secretary of Housing and
                                                                          Urban Development and Secretary of Health and Human
                                                                          Services under President Jimmy Carter;
                                                                               (11) The Honorable Ann Claire Williams, the first
                                                                          African-American woman appointed to the United States
                                                                          District Court for the North District of Illinois in 1985
                                                                          by President Ronald Reagan, the first African-American
                                                                          appointed to the United States Court of Appeals for the
                                                                          Seventh Circuit in 1999 by President William J. Clinton,
                                                                          and the third African-American woman to serve as a
                                                                          judge on a United States Court of Appeals;
                                                                               (12) Alexis Herman, Secretary of Labor under
                                                                          President William J. Clinton; and
                                                                               (13) Regina Benjamin, the 18th Surgeon General of
                                                                          the United States, serving in the administration of Presi-
                                                                          dent Barack Obama; and
                                                                  Whereas Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. commemorated its
                                                                     history and promoted service during its centennial cele-
                                                                     bration, January 11 through January 13, 2013, in the
                                                                     District of Columbia: Now, therefore, be it
                                                                    1               Resolved, That the Senate—
                                                                    2                        (1) congratulates Delta Sigma Theta Sorority,
                                                                    3               Inc. for 100 years of service to communities
                                                                    4               throughout the United States and the world; and
                                                                    5                        (2) commends Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc.
                                                                    6               for its promotion of sisterhood, scholarship, and
smartinez on DSK6TPTVN1PROD with                                    7               service.
                                                                                                                             Æ

                                                                               •SRES 13 IS

