                                                                                                                                    III




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       S. RES. 57
                                                   Designating February 28, 2013, as ‘‘Rare Disease Day’’.




                                              IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                            FEBRUARY 26, 2013
                                  Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. PRYOR, and
                                      Mrs. HAGAN) submitted the following resolution; which was considered
                                      and agreed to




                                                              RESOLUTION
                                       Designating February 28, 2013, as ‘‘Rare Disease Day’’.

                                  Whereas rare diseases and disorders are those that affect a
                                     small number of patients, typically less than 200,000
                                     people in the United States;
                                  Whereas, as of the date of approval of this resolution, nearly
                                     7,000 rare diseases affect approximately 30,000,000 peo-
                                     ple in the United States and their families;
                                  Whereas children with rare genetic diseases account for more
                                     than half of the population affected by rare diseases in
                                     the United States;
                                  Whereas many rare diseases are serious, life-threatening, and
                                     lack an effective treatment;





                                  Whereas rare diseases and conditions include epidermolysis
                                     bullosa, progeria, sickle cell anemia, Tay-Sachs, cystic fi-


                                                                                             2
                                          brosis, many childhood cancers, and fibrodysplasia
                                          ossificans progressiva;
                                  Whereas people with rare diseases experience challenges that
                                     include difficulty in obtaining an accurate diagnosis, lim-
                                     ited treatment options, and difficulty finding physicians
                                     or treatment centers with expertise in their diseases;
                                  Whereas great strides have been made in research and treat-
                                     ment for rare diseases as a result of the Orphan Drug
                                     Act (Public Law 97–414; 96 Stat. 2049) and amend-
                                     ments made by that Act;
                                  Whereas 2013 marks the 30th anniversary of the Orphan
                                     Drug Act and therefore a time to reflect upon the suc-
                                     cesses of that Act and the challenges to be addressed in
                                     the future;
                                  Whereas both the Food and Drug Administration and the
                                     National Institutes of Health have established special of-
                                     fices to advocate for rare disease research and treat-
                                     ments;
                                  Whereas the National Organization for Rare Disorders, an
                                     organization established in 1983 to provide services to,
                                     and advocate on behalf of, patients with rare diseases,
                                     was a primary force behind the enactment of the Orphan
                                     Drug Act and remains a critical public voice for people
                                     with rare diseases;
                                  Whereas the National Organization for Rare Disorders spon-
                                     sors Rare Disease Day in the United States to increase
                                     public awareness of rare diseases;
                                  Whereas Rare Disease Day has become a global event occur-





                                     ring annually on the last day of February and was ob-
                                     served in more than 60 countries in 2012;


                                              •SRES 57 ATS

                                                                                             3
                                  Whereas Rare Disease Day was observed in the United
                                     States for the first time on February 28, 2009; and
                                  Whereas Rare Disease Day is anticipated to be observed glob-
                                     ally for years to come, providing hope and information
                                     for rare disease patients around the world; Now, there-
                                    1fore, be it   Resolved, That the Senate—
                                    2                        (1) designates February 28, 2013, as ‘‘Rare
                                    3              Disease Day’’;
                                    4                        (2) recognizes the importance of improving
                                    5              awareness and encouraging accurate and early diag-
                                    6              nosis of rare diseases and disorders; and
                                    7                        (3) supports a national and global commitment
                                    8              to improving access to, and developing new treat-
                                    9              ments, diagnostics, and cures for, rare diseases and
                                  10               disorders.
                                              •SRES 57 ATS                                 Æ
