                                                                                                                                                             III




                                                              113TH CONGRESS
                                                                 1ST SESSION                        S. RES. 6
                                                                 To modify extended debate in the Senate to improve the legislative process.




                                                                          IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                                                                      JANUARY 3, 2013
                                                                  Mr. MERKLEY            submitted the following resolution; which was ordered to lie
                                                                                                     over under the rule




                                                                                          RESOLUTION
                                                                    To modify extended debate in the Senate to improve the
                                                                                     legislative process.
                                                                1               Resolved,
                                                                2     SECTION 1. EXTENDED DEBATE.
                                                                3               Paragraph 2 of rule XXII of the Standing Rules of
                                                                4 the Senate is amended by striking the second undesig-
                                                                5 nated paragraph and inserting the following:
                                                                6               ‘‘Is it the sense of the Senate that the debate shall
                                                                7 be brought to a close? And if that question shall be decided
                                                                8 in the affirmative by three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
                                                                9 sen and sworn, except on a measure or motion to amend
jbell on DSK7SPTVN1PROD with                                  10 the Senate rules, in which case the necessary affirmative
                                                                                                                         2
                                                                1 vote shall be two-thirds of the Senators voting, a quorum
                                                                2 being present, then cloture has been invoked.
                                                                3               ‘‘If that question is on disposition of a bill or joint
                                                                4 resolution, a resolution or concurrent resolution, a sub-
                                                                5 stitute amendment for a bill or resolution, a motion with
                                                                6 respect to amendments between the Houses, a conference
                                                                7 report, or advice and consent to a nomination or treaty,
                                                                8 and if such question shall be decided in the affirmative
                                                                9 by a majority of Senators voting, a quorum being present,
                                                              10 but less than three-fifths of the Senators duly chosen and
                                                              11 sworn (or less than two-thirds of the Senators voting, a
                                                              12 quorum being present, in the case of a measure or motion
                                                              13 to amend the Senate rules), then it shall be in order for
                                                              14 the Majority Leader (or his or her designee) to initiate
                                                              15 a period of extended debate upon the measure, motion,
                                                              16 or other matter pending before the Senate, or the unfin-
                                                              17 ished business, in relation to which the motion to close
                                                              18 debate was offered, in which case the period of extended
                                                              19 debate shall begin one hour later.
                                                              20                ‘‘During a period of extended debate, such measure,
                                                              21 motion, or other matter pending before the Senate, or the
                                                              22 unfinished business, shall be the unfinished business to the
                                                              23 exclusion of all other business, except on action or motion
jbell on DSK7SPTVN1PROD with                                  24 by the Majority Leader (or his or her designee).
                                                                           •SRES 6 IS

                                                                                                                         3
                                                                1               ‘‘During a period of extended debate it shall not be
                                                                2 in order for a Senator other than the Majority Leader (or
                                                                3 his or her designee) to raise a question as to the presence
                                                                4 of a quorum, except immediately prior to a vote or when
                                                                5 it has been more than forty-eight hours since a quorum
                                                                6 was demonstrated. If upon a roll call it shall be
                                                                7 ascertained that a quorum is not present, then the Senate
                                                                8 shall adjourn to a time previously decided by order of the
                                                                9 Senate or, if no such time has been established, then to
                                                              10 a time certain determined by the Majority Leader, after
                                                              11 consultation with the Minority Leader.
                                                              12                ‘‘During a period of extended debate a motion to ad-
                                                              13 journ or recess shall not be in order, unless made by the
                                                              14 Majority Leader (or his or her designee) or if the absence
                                                              15 of a quorum has been demonstrated. Notwithstanding
                                                              16 paragraph 1 of rule XIX, there shall be no limit to the
                                                              17 number of times a Senator may speak upon any question
                                                              18 during a period of extended debate.
                                                              19                ‘‘If, during the course of extended debate, the Pre-
                                                              20 siding Officer puts any question to a vote, the Majority
                                                              21 Leader (or his or her designee) may postpone any such
                                                              22 vote, which shall occur at a time determined by the Major-
                                                              23 ity Leader, after consultation with the Minority Leader,
                                                              24 but not later than the time at which a quorum is next
jbell on DSK7SPTVN1PROD with                                  25 demonstrated.
                                                                           •SRES 6 IS

                                                                                                                         4
                                                                1               ‘‘If at any time during a period of extended debate
                                                                2 no Senator seeks recognition, then the Presiding Officer
                                                                3 shall inquire as to whether any Senator seeks recognition.
                                                                4 If no Senator seeks recognition, then the Presiding Officer
                                                                5 shall again put the question as to bringing debate to a
                                                                6 close (and the Majority Leader or his or her designee may
                                                                7 postpone such vote in accordance with the preceding para-
                                                                8 graph), which shall be decided without further debate or
                                                                9 intervening motion. If that question shall be decided in
                                                              10 the affirmative by a majority of Senators voting, a quorum
                                                              11 being present, then cloture has been invoked and the pe-
                                                              12 riod of extended debate has ended. If that question shall
                                                              13 be decided in the negative by a majority of Senators vot-
                                                              14 ing, a quorum being present, then the period of extended
                                                              15 debate has ended.
                                                              16                ‘‘If cloture is invoked, then the measure, motion,
                                                              17 other matter pending before the Senate, or the unfinished
                                                              18 business, in relation to which the motion to close debate
                                                              19 was offered, shall remain the unfinished business to the
                                                              20 exclusion of all other business until disposed of.’’.
                                                                                                                         Æ
jbell on DSK7SPTVN1PROD with




                                                                           •SRES 6 IS

