                                                                                                                                    III




                                  113TH CONGRESS
                                     1ST SESSION                       S. RES. 76
                                  Designating room S–126 of the United States Capitol as the ‘‘Senator Daniel
                                      K. Inouye Room’’ in recognition of his service to the Senate and the
                                      people of the United States.




                                              IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
                                                                       MARCH 13, 2013
                                     Mr. REID        (for himself and Mr. LEAHY) submitted the following resolution;
                                                              which was considered and agreed to




                                                              RESOLUTION
                                  Designating room S–126 of the United States Capitol as
                                      the ‘‘Senator Daniel K. Inouye Room’’ in recognition
                                      of his service to the Senate and the people of the United
                                      States.

                                  Whereas Senator Daniel K. Inouye served the people of Ha-
                                     waii for more than 58 years as a member of the Terri-
                                     torial House of Representatives, the Territorial Senate,
                                     the United States House of Representatives, and the
                                     United States Senate;
                                  Whereas Senator Daniel K. Inouye became the first Japanese
                                     American to serve in both the United States House of
                                     Representatives and the United States Senate;





                                                                                             2
                                  Whereas Senator Daniel K. Inouye represented Hawaii in
                                     Congress from before the time that Hawaii became a
                                     State in 1959 until 2012;
                                  Whereas, during his tenure in the Senate, Senator Daniel K.
                                     Inouye served as the President pro tempore, the Chair-
                                     man of the Committee on Appropriations, the Chairman
                                     of the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on
                                     Appropriations, the first Chairman of the Select Com-
                                     mittee on Intelligence, the Chairman of the Committee on
                                     Indian Affairs, the Chairman of the Democratic Steering
                                     Committee, the Chairman of the Committee on Com-
                                     merce, Science, and Transportation, the Chairman of the
                                     Committee on Rules and Administration, the Chairman
                                     of the Select Committee on Secret Military Assistance to
                                     Iran and the Nicaraguan Opposition, and the Secretary
                                     of the Democratic Conference;
                                  Whereas Senator Daniel K. Inouye enlisted in the Army after
                                     the attacks on Pearl Harbor in 1941 and fought hero-
                                     ically in the Italian theater even after being wounded;
                                     and
                                  Whereas Senator Daniel K. Inouye received a Distinguished
                                     Service Cross, a Bronze Star, a Purple Heart with clus-
                                     ter, and 12 other medals and citations before receiving
                                     the Medal of Honor from President William J. Clinton in
                                     June 2000: Now, therefore, be it
                                    1              Resolved, That the Senate designates room S–126 of
                                    2 the United States Capitol as the ‘‘Senator Daniel K.
                                    3 Inouye Room’’, in recognition of his service to the Senate




                                    4 and the people of the United States.
                                                                                             Æ

                                              •SRES 76 ATS

